===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 400,460 =====
And the classical one just looks at a
small part of action and says, "Okay,
this is where all everything is
happening." And the quantum one actually
looks at all of it. And so it has more
information. The the quantum one, sorry,
the quantum one interprets more of it.
I'm a little bit confused cuz they're
both local. The quantum picks up more
information because you're looking at it
at the wave function over the entire
space. But what actually happens with
the observable is is that you have a
function. And you can either measure the
function at the point
um and then multiply it by the quantum
wave or you can take that function
differentiate it to get a one form stick
it into a simplectic form to get a
vector field throw the vector field to a
connection and use that connection to
take a directional derivative. So one of
these ends up as a position operator.
one of these sort of ends up as a
momentum operator for the P's and Q's
and the underlying coordinatization of
phase space. But that process of
promoting a classical observable which
is just like some number
um I don't really think that that that
works exactly because the function is
defined over the entire phase space. So
in a certain sense even if you're
thinking classically
uh you're both you're working over the
entire space of possibilities in both
cases.
The only thing that's different is that
the state of the system is seen as
um naturally looking at the entire space
whereas in this other case you actually
imagine a physical situation in which
only one part of it is relevant at any
time.
So in the classical case are you saying
that because we use a variational
principle that we're seeing all of the
space in a certain sense? Well, look,
you're defining an action or a lrronian
on the entire space and then you're
defining observables that you wish to
measure. So, you're thinking about for
the space of all possible initial
conditions, if I then measured the
system, you know, n units of time later,
I believe I would be sampling this
function at this point. And it's the
point part of it that is uh that is
narrowing things to a single point
whereas a state that is distributed
every wave is a wave in a medium that's
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 600,760 =====
not an SU cross an
SU. So, it's meaningfully spin six cross
spin 4.
Um, I don't think I've ever had a chance
to to, you know, basically everything is
always at this goddamn explain it like
I'm five level. So, we never actually
get to anything interesting. Um, it's a
great question.
That's what determines which Fbini is in
her product. And you know, you want to
know something fun. If you watch the
Oxford lecture, I screw it up. And I
know that I'm screwing it up. And why is
this? is because like look I I don't
think people have a clue Kurt as to what
it is like to work completely on your
own. They just don't they trying to
remind yourself if you think about how
much you've forgotten about GU I bet
it's huge. Right. Right. And then you
have to refresh it. Okay. I'd forgotten
all sorts of stuff I'd already done. One
of the things I'd forgotten is that you
end up with a 3a 7 metric on the fiber
which can't work. And so while I'm
giving the talk in Oxford, I'm thinking
I know this works, but I have to be
honest that I'm coming up with three and
se seven and three. And right at the end
I say are are there things left to do?
Certainly there are. In fact, you have
to get somehow. Sure. I'm trying to be
honest, but I'd forgotten. Oh yes, it's
the trace reversal of the Fbinius
metric. Most people don't know that
Fbinius metrics even exist because
they've never it is not typical in an
entire career in mathematics that you
had to in induce a metric on the space
of metrics. Well, the space of metrics
isn't even talked about much. I mean I I
I think it is it's not it's not never
discussed. It's just I actually there's
two different ways, right? There's a
language problem. Do you mean the space
of metric sections or do you mean the
space of pointwise metrics? So certainly
the space of metric sections is is very
much discussed. Pointwise metrics has
never really been focused
on. Now if you say something like that I
guarantee you somebody will pull out
papers from 1957 and Bryce Stewit looked
at this who knows what I don't
know but most people never induce a
Fbinius metric in their lives. And so it
come and this is one of the taxes that
you see is that if you do something
really different even if it's not like
developing a
new a new collection of
mathematics people have an idea I bet
there's one or two or maybe three
changes from what we usually do
and gu says I accept the standard model
I accept general relativity but
everything we do is slightly wrong. We
call we call Patise along by the wrong
name. We have the wrong grand unified
real forms of the group. SU5 is really
SU3 comma uh SU3 comma
2. SO10 is really spin 10 and spin 10 is
really spin 6 comma 4. Like the amount
of wear and tear on the mind to hear
somebody say no no no I I accept all
these things but we we've minorly got
everything shifted. I think is a huge
barrier to entry into
Gio. But anyway, you asked me why the
Fbinius metric. I don't
think you there are many different
metrics. I think there are
exactly four metrics if you don't add a
parameter to figure out how much trace
to how much traceless you want. In other
words, if it's only plus or minus one,
there are precisely four metrics you can
define and only four metrics you can
define. And two of them are consistent
with experiment and two of them are
ruled out by experiment. And the two
obvious ones are ruled out by
experiment. The trace reverse ones
remain in the game. And I, you
know, it is kind of fun because Einstein
forgot to trace reverse the reachi
tensor.
Mhm. And you know, it's like if I could
recapitulate anyone's mistake, that
would be the one I'd recapitulate.
So the observers, yeah, is it the same
as the metric bundle or is it the
tangent space of the metric bundle? the
tangent bundle to the metric. Well, the
observer is the package, you know, and
and here I was thinking actually a
little bit about growth and dee where
growth and dee replaced the concept of a
variety with the concept of a
scheme.
Um I don't want to say that the total
space is the observers. I it is the
bundles and the relationships and the
pullbacks like it is the package that is
the observers. Okay. So think about if
we
can I love the fact that you trust your
audience. So let's trust your audience.
Take an uh take a page from
object-oriented programming. In a class
definition, you've got member variables
and you've got bound
methods. So that's like stuff and stuff
you can do with and method and it's
you've got nouns, you got verbs. You got
stuff and you got things you can do with
the stuff. So that's what the observer
is. It's two
spaces with a a fiber and sections
connecting them and then it's bundles on
top of them. And if you wanted to talk
about like the the shift in perspective
from
Einstein, most of what we're going to do
in GU takes place not on X4, but on
Y14. Mostly we're not dealing with the
tangent bundle on Y14. the way Einstein
dealt mostly with the tangent bundle.
You're dealing with the spinner bundle
on
Y14. Mostly you're not dealing with the
Einstein Hilbert action. You're dealing
with this new action that has homology
to both the Einstein Hilbert action and
the churn Simons's action and additional
components that you've never there's
homology to both or analogy to both.
Sorry, you want to know funny the
biologists use homology to mean
similarity and so somehow I was in the
wrong part of my head. Um yeah, it has
similarity and analogy. I thought I
missed something. No, it's but it it's
it's very interesting. I I always tell
people that if somebody has a meaning to
the word ham puts a meaning to the word
Hamiltonian, you
know that they're in only one field
because it means one thing in civics,
one thing in physics and one thing in
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 1840,1960 =====
should be. We don't follow it. We pass
laws, we don't know that they exist.
We're living in like looney land. And so
what I'm doing is I'm saying I see your
collective fictions. I have collective
fictions of my own. It's not like I I
don't understand what a collective
fiction is, but I'm not going to get any
science done if I live in your collected
fictions. So my claim is I took those
that's a core set of assumptions. If you
have additional
assumptions, I understand that. But I'm
claiming that nothing passes even
those. Like for example, GU is not
phrased as a quantum theory.
So what do you imagine the quantization
procedure to be for GU ultimately? It's
a little confusing. It's not so
confusing if you think about it
downstairs on the base
space. The big problem is is that it's
not
one. The difference between zero
temporal dimensions, one temporal
dimension, and multiple temporal
dimensions is enormous. With zero
temporal dimensions, you're an elliptic
theory and you have access to a TS
singer and all the great stuff that
comes with that. If you have one
dimension, we know a lot about
Hamiltonian dynamics and development and
initial
conditions. Problem is, if you have two
or more temporal dimensions, you're in
something called ultra hyperbolic
equations. And very few people can think
in two or more temporal
dimensions. GU has several things. This
is something that like is a great
pleasure to be able to talk about. What
am I critical about? GU, you know, like
that's not a question that I get much. I
didn't ask that, but I'm curious to
know. I'm glad you asked that of
yourself. So, for
example, I don't know how to deal with
ultra hyperbolic
equations. So, if I think upstairs on
the 14 manifold, I'm not there are no
initial conditions because that's a
co-dimension one concept. really what
you have is boundary conditions and now
good luck I I don't I think I had to be
told that the koshi problem was well
posed in ultra hyperbolic equations it's
not something I yeah but this is not
stuff I know so it's a good
example if I'm not if you know the
entire concept of physics is that I have
an initial state I wouldn't that mean
there's no koshi horizon
I don't I believe that they are well
posed but I I don't
know. I don't know how to push
Hamiltonian
dynamics in multiple temporal
dimensions. Is the bundle trivial?
Which bundle? The metric bundle?
Uh, it depends on the topology. Well,
the reason I say that is cuz in GU
there's a global section. So, you can't
take a global section unless the
bundle's trivial.
There isn't a global section. You're
talking about the metric section. No,
no, no. That that was a thing that you
actually cut. This is fun because like I
I now get to actually have a meaningful
argument. Um, didn't we agree that there
are patches on which there's only a
connection defined on the tangent
bundle? And then where you're doing
observations is where you have the
metric defined. And that's one of the
ways in which we get around some of the
quantum gravity problems. Okay. So,
let's let's let's go, man. Because just
like you've forgotten much of GU or you
have to reintroduce it to yourself. Same
with myself. But by the way, thank you
for saying that because when when I when
when I say things like I forgot aspects
of this, this is like a city where you
you don't remember what your work is
from 17 years ago and it's stored in
some piece of paper you can't find all
that kind of stuff. Yeah. My
recollection is the PDF has IOTA which
is a local section and then it has
Gimmel which is a global section. But
I'm saying that the existence of the
gimmel implies that the bundle's
trivial. This is interesting. This is a
problem I never had before because
occasionally I would have to do a
refactor of the theory because I
realized that the the notation was
cumbersome or it conflicted with some
there only so many letters all that kind
of
stuff. Uh so then this was my other
critique Hebrew.
So there are other letters that are used
not much by mathematicians other than in
cardality Hebrew letters that were used
in GU. So and then there were some that
I chose to keep in and if I was to
introduce this to a friend a fresh I
wouldn't use the variation pi which was
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 2330,2445 =====
find critiques then I can retreat up
here and say but what GU is has not been
disproved. You've disproved my
explanation of GU. Yeah. So what is G?
Like what is it that you see is up here.
Sure. What makes GU GU such that if you
were to see it in the wild, someone
would say a wild GU appears? This is
such a great question, Kurt. I really
appreciate this. Um, you ever you ever
seen the zen of Python?
No. There's this thing called the zen of
Python, which tries to reduce the Python
programming aesthetic
to, you know,
uh, to a list of 24 zen colons. and or
or 26 or whatever it is. Yeah.
Um you know you're in
GU where you when you replace the
inhomogeneous Lorent group with the
inhomogeneous gauge group. You know
you're in GU where you spend most of
your time on a 14 manifold rather than
on a four manifold where the 14 manifold
is constructed from the four manifold.
You know you're in GU when there are no
internal symmetry groups. You know
you're in GU when the Higs
field comes out of an advalued one form.
You know you're in GU when you begin
with a four manifold. Use it to
construct a 14 manifold that behaves
like a three
manifold. You know you're in GU. Just a
moment. So you're referring to churn
simus theory.
And
yeah, there are two beautiful lrangeians
that are incredibly different that both
result in oiler lrange equations where
there's a curvature tensor and then you
called me out on this very well. I
really appreciate it. I often say that
something is a projection operator and
you point out that it's a contraction
operator which is quite you were
correct. I'm wrong. Cool. Yeah.
Um my belief is that Einstein was the
first person to really
relate a curvature to
form to an implied gauge potential by
taking his contraction operator to get
the Einstein tensor capital G mu new
from the remon tensor. That thing
there's two branches, right? There's a a
branch that uses the star operator to do
this little trick which is called the
churn Simons branch and then there's the
Einstein
contraction and both of those result in
oiler lrange equations with the
curvature tensor with a contraction
um that gets you from two forms to one
forms. That's how you know you're in GU
because you're using the equivariance
that's provided in having the gauge
group like why why are we failing to
quantize gravity from I I claim that
there answers to
this there are people that I didn't know
about until I started talking about GU
called McDow and Mansuri who tried to
get
uh gravity to come out of a gauge theory
on potentials. Now, their thing I think
doesn't work because you don't use the
space A of gauge potentials. You work on
a group. By the way, there's another
one. You know, you're in GU when you
take Einstein's unified field concept
much more seriously than the need to
quantize
gravity. Right? In GU, unified field
means something. It's algebraically
unified. And the idea is you start with
the inhomogeneous gauge group and then
you effectively super symmetriize it and
that is the gauge content. So you're
doing I I love this aspect. You're doing
field content that is an algebraic
gadget. Um boy there's so many
questions. Okay. May I linger? Yeah. By
the way, we can also do a multi-part
series at some point later. But this is
the teaser. Effectively super
symmetriized. Yeah. So that was
something that confused me before. So my
understanding and you can correct me if
I'm incorrect is that in the '7s there
was super symmetry. Yes. So I forget who
invented it in 1971. In 1973 there was
Wesumino as far as I recall. In 1974
there was Strati and Salam who created
some wizardry or machinery called the
Strati Salam construction. could be took
in spaceime and outputed a super field
or took in fields and outputed a super
field or the pankaray group. I would say
it took in an aphine space and gave you
a super an automatically super symmetric
field theory. So the idea is you didn't
have to ad hoc construct an action and
then check laboriously that this crazy
term cancellation happens.
uh up to a surface turn. So when you say
super symmetry is in your theory, I'm
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 2480,2535 =====
honest
group and I
do but the input is not Minkovski space.
Minkovski space doesn't exist.
It's a fugazi, right? It's a it's an
approximation. The space of connections
is a legitimate aphine space. It is an
aphine space. It's not okay, well, we
won't ding it and put curvature into it.
It just it's it's a flat space.
That was always
meant to be what the Salam Strati
machine did. Now, I believe that there
are super symmetric theories that don't
come from a Salam Strati thing.
But the cool thing about Salam Stratthy,
by the way, if we're mangling this name,
I I apologize to the Stratthy family.
Um, the cool thing about the machine is
is that it guarantees you that your
output will have good characteristics.
And so what I'm claiming is what fixes
the number of generations at an
effective level at
three is the extension of the
inhomogeneous gauge group to include
supercharges.
Now, you call them supercharges because
they're fractional spin fields that
should
have commuting rather than
anti-commuting products that land you in
the SP. Look, if you want, you know, the
informal claim that super symmetry,
you're taking the square root of the um
momentum. Gu says no, no, no, that idea
should be you're taking the square root
of connections.
You're taking the square root of the
gauge potentials. That's a powerful idea
because the gauge potentials are
typically associated with first order
differential operators. So you're taking
a square root not like of a lelassian
the way D
did, but you're taking a square root of
a first order operator.
So the thing is is that I don't want to
get the reason I say super symmetry like
things is that I
notice we we have an epidemic of spell
checkers and if you spell like something
wrong they pretend that they can't read
it and that it's garbage and that
there's nothing. I don't quite know what
they're going to object to. Like, you
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 3310,3450 =====
is here's the formula for the dark
energy like I write down a formula and I
say you know from this new desi
experiment that if it continues there
isn't a cosmological constant it's
variable and it's already a problem that
the cosmological constant would be so
many orders of magnitude lower than it
should be
right so what if it what if there's a
term that can respond imagine that you
set tu stress energy tensor equal to
zero if there's a a capital G mu new
curvature tensor Einstein
curvature then you need the dark energy
term to go up and down with it right you
need it to be able to achieve a ve if
you
will the reason that the we're stuck
with the cosmological constant is that
there's an automatic identity inside of
the Einstein curvature which is that the
full remon curvature has a bianke
identity the contracted version the
Einstein tensor is what has the
divergence free due to the bianc key
identity. Therefore, set tu equal to
zero. Throw the dark energy term to the
other side. It better have an automatic
differential equation because it's equal
to something that has one. Okay. So now
the only equation there only three real
tensors again say something slightly
inaccurate. There only three real
tensors in Romanian geometry. There's
the metric tensor, there's the torsion
tensor and there's the curvature tensor.
Sure. Curvature tensor is used by
Einstein to do gravity.
The torsion tensor is the weak sister
that never makes it to the big dance. So
all you've got is G mu and it's got one
equation which is that it's annihilated
by its own levy connection. Therefore
all you can do is put a lambda in front
of
that. So that the divergence has a
product rule. The derivative of lambda
with g mu left alone plus lambda* the
derivative of g mu. But the derivative
of g mu dies. That means that the only
thing that you can count on is that the
derivative of lambda has to die. That is
what doomed Einstein to having to
include this goddamn term in his
equation which he never liked cuz it was
just there were three terms. There was
the beautiful
term, there was the greatest blunder
term, and then there was the cheap wood
relative to the pure marble, which was
what the stress energy tensor was as he
described it. And torsion
Well, the the torsion isn't in the
Einstein field equations because of the
palletin the fact that if you open
yourself up to torsion then the oiler
lrange doesn't select for it. So the
reason was that so one of the
contentions you know you're in GU when
instead of using the torsion you think
about contortion and then instead of
using contoursion contortion is not
called contortion to me. What is it
called? What do I call it? What do you
call it? I don't know because you're
using a different term. Okay. So if you
take the displacement tensor,
displacement torsion tensor, we haven't
gotten to distortion yet.
Torsion is something involving some
commutation of X and Y vector fields as
you've seen in Romanian geometry. Then
there's a an equivalent augmented
torsion, but that's the thing I'm
introducing. We haven't gotten there
yet. Contoursion isn't something I've
introduced. Okay, got it. Great.
My understanding again I've been out of
academics for a long time so maybe I'm
screwing it up. If I have a bundle and I
have a Levicha
connection I can ask for what's the
difference between any connection and
the levy chvita connection that has to
be an add value one
form that is called the contorion and
you can get the regular torsion from the
contorion or the contorion from the
regular. In other words they have
equivalent I didn't know that had a
name. Yeah, I believe that and this is
stuff that nobody knows, so I'm going to
be a little bit careful. I believe that
the torsion and contorsion have three
separate representational theoretic
components. So the ad in the advalued
one form is lambda 2 and the one form
valued in the two forms breaks into a
sum of three irreducible representations
under a lorren
group. that thing if you take different
proportions of them, one proportion
combination is the torsion, one
proportional combination is the
conttors. They're
equivalent. Neither one of those works.
And so the whole one you know you know
you're in geometric unity when you use
the gauge rotated levy chvita connection
in what would be the contorion instead
of the torsion tensor because that thing
has incredible
uh invariance properties and
equivariance properties under the gauge
group acting on the inhomogeneous gauge
group. Do I know that as the tilted
gauge group? The tilted gauge group.
This is I love this tilted gauge group.
The terra for our Hindi speaking friends
uh gauge group is mapped in by this what
I now call toao
subplus and you can multiply on the
right or you can multiply on the left by
the inverse so that you get a right
action on both sides. You can take the
double coset construction the double
coset of the inhomogeneous gauge group
by the proper tow tilted
homorphisms acting on both
sides results in something equivalent to
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 3470,3535 =====
There's two different because they're
multiple homorphisms. But think about
this an inom an inhomogene sorry a
semiirect product topologically is a
cartisian product. It's just the algebra
that's the semiirect. Okay. So what if
you had
G cross or G? Now you're speaking of a
group G.
Yes, thank you. Thank you for keeping me
honest. So you have a gauge group
cartisian product with the space of add
valued one
forms up to an origin add valued one
forms is the same as the space of
connections. So first start with the
inhomogeneous gauge group. Realize that
that's equivalent to gauge group
cartisian product gauge potentials.
Realize that the gauge potentials are
equivalent to the space of connections.
So therefore that's the whole in
homogeneous gauge group is equal to
gauge group cartisian product
connections. Now mod out by G. Just try
to cancel the G. So G mod G goes away.
Now you're left with an A. Now you're
mod out by another G and you get a mod
G.
You know you're you know you're in GU
when uh a mod G is replaced
by the double co-et of the enhomogeneous
gauge group by its own tilted
subgroup. And you'll know you're in GU
when the
um dark energy term which is the
cosmological constant times the metric
is replaced by
Var pi an add valued one form
minus the epsilon gauge transformation
inverted
counterrotating the ex the exterior
derivative coupled to the oliff
connection
applied to the epsilon gauge
transformation the sort of the mora
cartan form that thing is what solves
the cosmological constant problem in G.
Now it's just a ve. Now your only
question is why is it so flat where I
live? Because you have this different
term that doesn't have to be
constant. Look, Eric, I have this
geometric unity iceberg. I can see the
reaction from the comments and people
who email me. It comprises professors,
lay people, researchers, graduate
students in string theory, by the way.
and in not string theory. So, it's not
as if string theorists don't like you or
you don't like string theorist as a
whole. But I don't know what the
reaction to GU or the iceberg, but GU
itself is in the academic world. I know
what the reaction is like from the pop
academics that we talked about earlier.
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 3860,4050 =====
drop. If the mass drops sufficiently
then a dack type operator decouples into
wild vial type operators.
So the claim is is that what we have is
we have a non-chyro world where there
were two chyro halves that were coupled
because of a ve and then when gravity
gets low
enough what I believe you have is you
have a
decoupling into matter sectors and we
what we call
luminous will be connected to matter
that is currently dark when gravity
becomes strong
F. Oh, this is like a mathematician
trying to sound cool, but like that's
what I think the equation said. Durac
Rorita Schwinger. Yeah, there's a
complex and there's an operator. Let's
take a duram complex where d^2= 0 on a
manifold and let's put a bundle on top
of that manifold with a
connection. Let's imagine the connection
is flat.
So we've tensored this bundle, this
vector bundle with the DAM complex with
a flat connection. D^2 will continue to
be
zero. Now let's say okay, let's relax
the flatness
condition. D ^2 is no longer equal to
zero. d^2 actually becomes
definitionally the curvature.
Okay? Right? Right? Because you need
like you need to go from I forms to I +2
forms and instead of it being a second
order differential operator, it's a
zeroith order differential operator
equivalent to a degree to form valued in
the adjint bundle which is the
curvature. Okay. Yeah.
So sometimes in such situations you're
like oh no that ruined my complex the
curvature which I love ruined the
complex structure of the tensored DM
complex. So what do you do? You say okay
I'm going to roll it up into an
operator.
Instead of having a multi-step complex,
I'm just going to say let let's take
even forms on one side, odd forms on the
other, and I'll map the even forms up
via D, and I'll map them down via D
star. Both coupled to a connection. So
now you get a one-step operator rather
than a multi-step operator. It's not a
complex, but that thing would be the
DRAM complex. the best you can do with a
drram complex with a vector bundle
tensored with it where the connection
was not trivial which was did not have
trivial curvature rather let's say it
that way so this is a rolled up
complex that normally one would find on
a three manifold remember I said
that your NGU when a four manifold
births a 14 manifold which behaves like
a three
manifold there two ways that that
happens. You pointed to one of them,
which is, oh, you mean churn silence.
That was part of the truth. But then
there's a second part of the truth. Only
on a three manifold do I get a cheap
version of
a complex that
has zero forms to one forms, one forms
to two forms, two forms to three
forms. Right? So there are three
non-trivial steps in that complex.
This one goes zero forms to one forms,
one forms to two forms, but the two
forms then get
contracted to d minus1 forms. And then
the d minus one forms get taken to d
forms. So if you put those together, it
looks like a three complex cuz you cut
out almost all of the middle of the
duram
sequence. Right? Now that gadget gets
rolled
up and that's what this direct fit
swinger operator is all about. That's
what the firmian sector looks like. And
by the way, the idea that I haven't
heard any commentary on this idea at
all. It's just weird. It's like here
is a bold clear idea. Take the 14
manifold and that 14
manifold has a
chimeic bundle which is equivalent to
the tangent and the co-angent bundles.
In fact, it's semiconically equivalent
and is endowed with natural metric
information. So you can build spinners
without ever making a metric choice.
Okay, that guy because you can build
spinners, you can think of that as a
um bundle with a U64, 64 structure
group. And what we're going to do is
we're going to take the DAM complex on
that thing, which would normally have
degree 0, degree 1, degree 2, 3, 4, all
the way up to 14 before it died. So it'
have 15 different terms, 14 different
operators.
You're going to cut out almost all of
them in the middle. So you're going to
go 0 to 1 to 13 to 14 and then die. And
so how did you get from two to 13? Oh.
Well, you took two. Yes. You did a
contraction that got you back to one.
Yeah. And then you did a star. Yes. And
so that thing when rolled up has that
zero in the
south east corner of the mat of a 2x2
matrix of operators which is what I
think will be found to be a seessaw
mechanism.
So there's an entire there's a wonderful
book by Michael Aia called the physics
and geometry of knots and you see this
complex in that
book. So that the reason that the 14
manifold behaves like a three manifold
three is magical just a magical
dimension.
There's the Bzonic magic which is churn
Simon's like theories and there's the
firmianic magic which is that you roll
up this very simple
thing and that's what leads to three
generations.
Do you still have the d squ property in
this complex that's only 3 to four long?
This is something I've never said
anywhere. There is a new dsqu I think
it's as cyclic crazy beautiful
complex that if you have two connections
uh I created and have never released to
anyone I haven't even mentioned it
because it's going to it's going to
engender more confusion but suffice it
to say there's something that looks
like oh god what is
it da
A f subb for the second connection
identity db I think that's the four
entry oh sorry there there two negative
signs in the second column so there is a
new d squed which is unbelievable and
one of the coolest things about this is
that on shell where the equations get
satisfied a complex is birthed so If you
think about it and this is you know this
is like this is more with my old math
buddies. My interpretation is that the
Einstein condition is a co logical
condition. Okay. Because what it says is
the curvature has some special property.
But if the curvature is the
obstruction to d^2 equaling 0 then maybe
on shell what that's telling you is that
a new colum columnies theory is born on
shell.
So you're going to get a modulized space
of
connections and then you can look at the
kernel and co- kernel of a colomology
theory on that space and you get this
gorgeous structure. But the thing is is
that look I went into math to avoid
string
theory. And you know, there's just this
very weird story which I had couldn't
sort out in my mind where
I I was a 17-year-old kid at the
University of
Pennsylvania who went to a lecture of Ed
Whitten on string theory in
===== TRANSCRIPT LINES 4330,4400 =====
unexampled phenomenon that what you're
actually asking is for people to use a
huristic. Look, I'm not going to read
all that. Just tell me whether it's
right or wrong, whether he's, you know,
full of it or whether there's anything
to it. And by the way, here's a story
that I I don't think I've told much.
There's a guy named Eugenio Bianke who's
I think still running around in physics.
I went to a conference right after the
Oxford talk in 2013.
and he said you know we've been at this
conference for three days this is our
last day the fourth and everybody in the
world because like Lemon had written
about this was a big you know the
Guardian had written about it and he
said everybody wants to know is there
anything to this or is there nothing to
this so let's go and we'll ditch the
conference so we ditch the conference we
sit
down and I start explaining it to him I
don't know where he went and he finally
he just said stop right there we're like
20 minutes
And I should have listened to this. I
was just like I didn't have the
confidence to hear what he had to say.
He
said, forgive me you Jenny if you're out
there. He said the only thing that's
occurring to people is that there are
either zero new ideas or one new
idea. And nobody imagines that there are
two or more. And the most likely number
is zero.
And then he pointed
at the displaced torsion of the
augmented torsion tensor and he said
just take
that he said that's an entire
field. He
said that one idea is worthy of a field.
Now I didn't know how to process that.
And he said the problem is there's new
idea after new idea after new idea and
nobody no one has budgeted that this is
a
possibility. It was
like remember when you said something
nice and I said thank you and I said
it's a struggle to figure out what to
say. I don't know how to receive the
idea like it's a weird thing that you
work on the theory of everything and you
think it's right. You take those two
statements that shouldn't be a weird
thing for anyone with a PhD in a
technical subject. Like of course that's
what you're working on. If I was in
biology, I'd be trying to cure
cancer. You know, if I if I owned a
rocket company, I'd be trying to go to
Mars.
And to me, it's like we're in
theoretical physics to solve
physics. Like, you know, I know Jim
Watson as a person. That guy's name will
be around for 10,000 years if humans
