Why are you nervous?
I You're
formidable. Sean Carol doesn't make me
as nervous as you do. And he's hostile
and you're not. You've arrived. I'm
nervous for the right reasons because
we're actually going to have a
conversation. And I never have a
conversation.
What is a core idea of geometric unity
that if people knew more about it, it
would get them as excited about GU as
you
are? That despite the fact I mean it's a
great question. First of all,
um I believe it is the only
[Music]
claim of a theory that starts from
essentially as close to nothing as you
can in
mathematics to try to derive everything
we
see. And because we see a world that is
complex and baroque like the standard
model in general
relativity that process of development
and unfolding has to be fairly lengthy
just the way human development from a
single fertilized egg
is. And I think that what gets lost and
I think what what you did beautifully is
to show that just because something has
a simple starting
point doesn't mean that the theory
remains simple. this concept of writing
something down on a napkin that
represents the entire world
uh skips many steps if what you're
really trying to do is to understand
where you are, who you are. And I think
the fact that it starts basically from
four degrees of freedom and a tiny
amount of sectoral information like
which spin structure is active and how
many temporal dimensions do you
want. Um that's it. That's really the
only starting point for geometric unity.
And the only comparable claims that I
know
of would be Garrett Lesey saying let's
start from the most complicated simple
league group possible. Peter White
saying, "Let's start from
SU4 and we'll quotient out by SU3 cross
U1 to get uh the electrostrong group and
then we'll try to figure out how to get
an SU2 from a wick rotation inside of a
projective space or Steven Wolram saying
maybe this all comes out of a very
simple cellular rule." And I don't think
that any of those have actually gotten
to the point where they can make the
claim that that's a that's a logical
train of development. So to me that
would be one way of answering the
question. Another way of answering it is
how much do you care about the actual
particles of matter that make up
everything? Like do you care about the
up quark down quark electron tow
particle? Do you care about these
symmetries of nature? Where is this
crazy SU3 cross SU2 cross U1 coming
from? Why are the three generations? Why
is this chyal and therefore asymmetric,
left-handed, right-handed, or different?
And I'm I guess one of the things I'm
astounded by is the way that those
questions when I was 17 were on the lips
of every theoretical
physicist. And through whatever process
we went through starting in
8384, those questions got relegated to
not particularly interesting or relevant
questions. Which I
think if you told me that you could get
physicists to stop worrying about three
generations, the famous who ordered that
problem in Isidor Abby, I wouldn't have
believed
you. So two notes. Number one, you
contacted me 48 hours ago and said
you're coming to Toronto. I normally
prepare for a podcast weeks in advance
mentally and then also just studying
like psychologically and then studying.
Yeah.
So, this is a teaser podcast which
somewhat assumes people have watched
some of the Geometric Unity iceberg so
that we can go into some depth. As for
greater depth, that will be in the non-
teaser, which will be I don't know how
long from now, but it's upcoming and
I'll I'll come back to Toronto for it
because I'm I can't tell
you how much that has impacted me. Like
for the first time, I'm having a real
conversation about a real thing with
another human being that I've spent my
entire life talking about to myself and
myself alone.
The second note is that that first
question about what is the greatest idea
about geometric unity or some core idea
that what would you what would be
impressive I think was or comes from
Richard Beheil if I'm pronouncing his
last name correctly. He has a fantastic
YouTube channel. I'll place it on
screen. He's the one who did the the
Higs particle video recently and did a
spinner video recently. So plenty of
this will be me also reiterating what
you're saying so that I can ensure that
I'm following along and I'll try to make
sure you get your act back like TCP IP.
Okay, let's see. How would you summarize
GU simply?
Okay, now let me let me put a caveat to
that. Yeah, again on screen I'll put a
link to this video where I talk about
the perils of explain like I'm five else
you don't understand it. I have a video
where I say there are three factors
here. Much like there's cost, speed, and
quality in the business world. Very
often there's a there's a trade-off. Any
many things, whether it's human
relations or uh pedagogy or business or
whatever, it's here's three things that
you feel are essential. Choose any two.
Sure. Exactly. So I think for teaching,
yeah, it's succinctness, accuracy, and
simplicity. So if you want something
that's simple and accurate, it's going
to take quite some time. So that's say
an algebraic geometry textbook. It's
actually quite simple because it starts
from something rudimentary, but it takes
a semester to go through, right? If you
want something that's accurate but
succinct, you sacrifice simplicity. And
that's what Sorry. Yes. Accurate but
succinct, you sacrifice simplicity. Yes.
So let's say what is the standard
model's gauge group. So you can say it's
SU3 cross blah blah blah. Then you can
say it's modded out by Z6. Super
succinct. It's not quite simple. So
anyhow, I'm asking you to sacrifice some
accuracy now. Okay. Oh, really? Cuz that
would be great to tell Gu in a simple
and succinct manner.
A life begins as a four manifold
which
begets already failed.
So someone said that in my ex explain
like I'm five videos for for geometric
unity. I use the word engendered. Yeah.
And they're like what 5-year-old knows
the word engendered? So let alone
manifold.
Now we're not aiming at the 5-year-old.
Well, okay. Here's the here's the thing.
you most people, why do they care about
fundamental physics? Because it's
existence. You're here in this miracle
place. You don't know what you are. You
don't know where this is. And you want
to know like God's thoughts. And that's
the thing where when we talk about a
crisis in physics or whatever, and
people say, "Well, what about condensed
matter?"
Well, that's not the part that scratches
the philosophical itch of who am I,
where am I, what is this, I want to know
before it's all
over. Right? So the key thing is we are
waves in a medium. The medium is called
a bundle. It's a very strange thing that
you are a wave and nobody told you what
the name of the medium is. You'll have
an entire hear an entire conversation
about the
ether. And like the bundle is probably
the right concept of the ether, you
know, and instead for some reason they
stopped minting new words after ether.
So we're still discussing the ether and
we're not discussing bundles. So if
you're a wave in a
medium, the universe is a newspaper
story. You want to
know where and when, who and what, how
and why, where is space, when is time.
Put the two of them together, you have
spaceime. Then there's the who and what.
Those are the bzons and firmians that
make up the matter in the case of the
firmians and the force and the other
field in the case of the bzons. So you
have matter acting on force and force
redirecting
matter whichever way they they're
interacting. And then how and why is
what we would call the equations in the
lrange
gene. And so that's a pretty good idea
about how to remember how a physicist
thinks about reality at the deepest
level. Tell me where it's going on. Tell
me what the equipment and the players is
are. and tell me what the rules are and
what the consequences
are. So basically geometric unity says
that we have this wrong. Not wildly
wrong in the sense of I can't connect
it. It's very connected to what I'm
claiming and what Einstein was claiming
or that what the authors of the standard
model are claiming. But the first thing
is that the arena is not spacetime. It's
a different kind of a gadget called a
bundle. And one thing you can think
about it is that there's sort of two
spaces in a bundle, not one
space. And that gives you a little bit
of an opportunity to say maybe if you if
if you're going to sacrifice accuracy,
let's go for it. The quantum is
happening on a 14 manifold and the
classical is happening on a four
manifold and they're not on the same
space. They're not native to the same
space. So a lot of the attempt to say
that you have to quantize gravity or
which slit with which slit does the
photon or electron go through in the
double slit experiment all these things
come from the fact that you're trying to
answer a non-spacetime question in a
construct called spacetime that because
Einstein sort of wrote down the rules
around 1913 through 1917 sometimes with
Gman sometimes in rivalry with
Hilbert that
story has confused us. We It's like
having a Mercer projection of the world
on your on your wall and starting to
think, well, that is the world. No, it's
a distortion. Einstein distorted the
world for his time. And geometric unity
asserts that ultimately if you want to
not look at the map and you want to look
at the territory, you have to keep
putting in a new
map until finally in the end reality is
its own exogesis. There's there's no
tool to look at it. So geometric unity
says you're not living on one space.
You're living on a relationship between
two spaces. And in that relationship,
you've put the quantum on one space, the
classical on another, which decreases
the amount of conflict between them. It
also says, for example, that the
classical world is by far the more
important of the two worlds than the
than the Quan. How does it say that? So,
look, I want to riff with you
differently than I can riff with anyone
else. I'm in the rare position where I'm
talking to the only person who has
actually talked about one of the great
revolutions of our time that actually
happened. And when you when you did that
show with Eva Miranda on geometric
quantization, you took one of the three
great developments in physics after the
standard model and you made it publicly
accessible with u professor Miranda. So
what is the situation? Isn't it amazing?
We had a revolution called geometric
quantization and there's no trace of it.
Yeah. In the pop the public doesn't know
but for your channel that it
exists. And if you wanted to say it in a
really funny way it's that Hamiltonian
dynamics one way there are two ways of
basically figuring out the consequence
of a rule. If you use the Hamiltonian
formalism it self
quantizes. There's a thing called a
simplectic form that generates how the
world develops. And what we didn't
realize
is it comes from something else. It's
the curvature tensor of a connection on
a bundle over something called phase
space. So we had this concept of phase
space to figure out how classical f uh
physics
develops. And classical phase
space births and bootstraps its own
medium for quantum waves.
So once you once you know that and it's
not perfect but just we're sacrificing a
little bit of accuracy to say something
like dramatic, meaningful and
punchy. If I tell you the classical
theory, you have to figure out the
consequences of it quantum mechanically.
But the the quantum fetish that you see
is kind of weird and wild. Um yes there
are systems that don't appear to be the
quantization of any classical structure
but the standard model is a classical
theory that then gets quantized and it
in some
sense it figure it bootstraps its own
quantization once you give like you'll
hear physicists say once you've given
the lrangeian or the action everything
is in
place it's just a question of figuring
out the consequence. Well, if that's
true and the action is classical, then
what do you mean that you're so focused
on the quantum? So, I I guess look, it's
embarrassing, but I just think we have a
quantum fetish and we have a tiny number
of people who convinced everyone to
repeat the same statements about, well,
you know, the world is quantum
mechanical. So, if you say, I think the
classical is more important, they don't
hear that as an
informed statement. They hear that as
you didn't get the fact that the world
is quantum. You you still think that you
live in a classical
world or for example the fact that why
does the classical world dominate? Why
are we confused about the quantum world?
Why isn't it evident that it's
everything is quantum? It's fineman
voting. Have I ever talked about fineman
voting? No. Imagine that you have 10,000
people lost in a featureless
landscape and they're trying to figure
out which way to go and you've got one
cult of like a thousand
people, right? So, a small group of
people and they all agree and you say,
"We're going to take a poll. We're going
to add up. We're going to point in
different
directions and then whatever the
sum of the direction, we're going to
average out by the number of people and
we'll go in that direction at that
speed. Well, the key point is is that
everybody who's not in the cult is
pointing in some different direction and
that's randomly going to average out to
going in no direction at all except for
the cult and they're all going in the
same direction. So in find and voting
the classical thing contributes a much
more coherent picture of what should
happen and that's why the classical
world dominates even though it's a
minority perspective.
Okay. Why can't you say that the action
itself is not classical? You have an
action and you can interpret it in two
ways. One is a quantum way then another
is a classical way. You can do that. But
the action itself is not or the
lrangeian itself is not classical.
I this is logo maki. We're arguing over
words rather than substance. Okay. Let
me be let me let me be semantically
clear. Okay. You can get classical
observables. Yep. By taking the action
or you can get quantum observables by
doing something else with the action.
And the classical one just looks at a
small part of action and says, "Okay,
this is where all everything is
happening." And the quantum one actually
looks at all of it. And so it has more
information. The the quantum one, sorry,
the quantum one interprets more of it.
I'm a little bit confused cuz they're
both local. The quantum picks up more
information because you're looking at it
at the wave function over the entire
space. But what actually happens with
the observable is is that you have a
function. And you can either measure the
function at the point
um and then multiply it by the quantum
wave or you can take that function
differentiate it to get a one form stick
it into a simplectic form to get a
vector field throw the vector field to a
connection and use that connection to
take a directional derivative. So one of
these ends up as a position operator.
one of these sort of ends up as a
momentum operator for the P's and Q's
and the underlying coordinatization of
phase space. But that process of
promoting a classical observable which
is just like some number
um I don't really think that that that
works exactly because the function is
defined over the entire phase space. So
in a certain sense even if you're
thinking classically
uh you're both you're working over the
entire space of possibilities in both
cases.
The only thing that's different is that
the state of the system is seen as
um naturally looking at the entire space
whereas in this other case you actually
imagine a physical situation in which
only one part of it is relevant at any
time.
So in the classical case are you saying
that because we use a variational
principle that we're seeing all of the
space in a certain sense? Well, look,
you're defining an action or a lrronian
on the entire space and then you're
defining observables that you wish to
measure. So, you're thinking about for
the space of all possible initial
conditions, if I then measured the
system, you know, n units of time later,
I believe I would be sampling this
function at this point. And it's the
point part of it that is uh that is
narrowing things to a single point
whereas a state that is distributed
every wave is a wave in a medium that's
distributed over an expanse. So what I
meant was that if you do some variation
principle you say okay let's take the
extreme of that. Yeah only that for the
classical case contributes to an
observable. Yes. Whereas in the quantum
case, it's it doesn't have to just be
that single part. Well, again, the
variational sounds more
langian than Hamiltonian. The
Hamiltonian sort of says, I don't need
to know about all that. I'm just going
to start from here and move.
But you can genre map. No, you
certainly.
Okay. So, if you're lost, don't worry.
This is just the beginning. I have some
other questions. It's two friends
talking late on a late on a Friday. So
in GU
and again I'm just going to assume that
the iceberg is out and people have
watched this so you and I can talk
instead of having to cover GU. Put the
link in the Sure. There's a Frobinius
inner product that's introduced. Yeah.
Why the Frobinius inner product?
Presumably there are other inner
products that could could have been
used. Well in fact it's not the Fbinius
inner product. It's the trace reversed
Fbinius inner product. And that the only
reason it's trace reversed is that we
don't have
a grand unified theory of the observed
world that
uses spin 7
cross
su2 which would really be spin 7 cross
spin 3 right one of the problems is that
the typical description of the petisam
theory that we've
discussed is that that theory is usually
presented as su4 4 cross SU2 cross SU2.
And it's not that the field doesn't know
that that's equivalent to spin 6 cross
spin 4, but it is meaningfully different
because it's it pushes you how you call
something determines how you think about
it. This a very human thing. And it
really is spin 6 cross spin 4 because GU
and I don't know that you've you and I
have even had this discussion is a
machine that could also accept a 111
spacetime or a 115. Any multiple of four
dimensions with one of them taken as
time results in a GU. Why would a 111
work? Sorry, did I say 111? I meant
7-Eleven. I meant uh 17. No, no, I'm not
messing you up now. 111. Yeah. No. Why?
It has to add up to 12. 12 is a multiple
of four. Uhhuh. Okay. No, I did it
right. Did you? Yeah. Doesn't have to
add up to 14. Just a moment. Don't go
anywhere. Hey, I see you inching away.
Don't be like the economy. Instead, read
The Economist. I thought All the
Economist was was something that CEOs
read to stay up to date on world trends.
And that's true. But that's not only
true. What I found more than useful for
myself personally is their coverage of
math, physics, philosophy, and AI,
especially how something is perceived by
other countries and how it may impact
markets. For instance, The Economist had
an interview with some of the people
behind Deepseek the week Deepseek was
launched. No one else had that. Another
example is The Economist has this
fantastic article on the recent dark
energy data which surpasses even
scientific Americans coverage in my
opinion. They also have the chart of
everything. It's like the chart version
of this channel. It's something which is
a pleasure to scroll through and learn
from. Links to all of these will be in
the description of course. Now the
economist commitment to rigorous
journalism means that you get a clear
picture of the world's most significant
developments. I am personally interested
in the more scientific ones like this
one on extending life via mitochondrial
transplants which creates actually a new
field of medicine something that would
make Michael Leven proud. The Economist
also covers culture, finance and
economics, business, international
affairs, Britain, Europe, the Middle
East, Africa, China, Asia, the Americas,
and of course the USA. Whether it's the
latest in scientific innovation or the
shifting landscape of global politics,
The Economist provides comprehensive
coverage and it goes far beyond just
headlines. Look, if you're passionate
about expanding your knowledge and
gaining a new understanding, a deeper
one, of the forces that shape our world,
then I highly recommend subscribing to
The Economist. I subscribe to them and
it's an investment into my into your
intellectual growth. It's one that you
won't regret. As a listener of this
podcast, you'll get a special 20% off
discount. Now you can enjoy the
Economist and all it has to offer for
less. Head over to their website
www.economist.com/toe to get started.
Thanks for tuning in and now let's get
back to the exploration of the mysteries
of our universe. Again, that's
economist.com/to doesn't have to add up
to 14. That's in the B that's in the in
the total space. I'm saying the input is
a one and a three. Uhhuh. And that
begets you the 14. Okay. Now the next
one up is okay. I see what you're
saying. Is 1 and 7 and then it's 1 and
11 and then it's 1 and 15 etc. etc. In
each one of those there's a petis salam
analog. In each one of those, there's a
standard model analog. And in each one
of those, there's a spin 10
analog and an SU5 analog. And the in all
of those cases above 1, 3, this, the pet
salon thing is a spin cross a spin. It's
not an SU cross an
SU. So, it's meaningfully spin six cross
spin 4.
Um, I don't think I've ever had a chance
to to, you know, basically everything is
always at this goddamn explain it like
I'm five level. So, we never actually
get to anything interesting. Um, it's a
great question.
That's what determines which Fbini is in
her product. And you know, you want to
know something fun. If you watch the
Oxford lecture, I screw it up. And I
know that I'm screwing it up. And why is
this? is because like look I I don't
think people have a clue Kurt as to what
it is like to work completely on your
own. They just don't they trying to
remind yourself if you think about how
much you've forgotten about GU I bet
it's huge. Right. Right. And then you
have to refresh it. Okay. I'd forgotten
all sorts of stuff I'd already done. One
of the things I'd forgotten is that you
end up with a 3a 7 metric on the fiber
which can't work. And so while I'm
giving the talk in Oxford, I'm thinking
I know this works, but I have to be
honest that I'm coming up with three and
se seven and three. And right at the end
I say are are there things left to do?
Certainly there are. In fact, you have
to get somehow. Sure. I'm trying to be
honest, but I'd forgotten. Oh yes, it's
the trace reversal of the Fbinius
metric. Most people don't know that
Fbinius metrics even exist because
they've never it is not typical in an
entire career in mathematics that you
had to in induce a metric on the space
of metrics. Well, the space of metrics
isn't even talked about much. I mean I I
I think it is it's not it's not never
discussed. It's just I actually there's
two different ways, right? There's a
language problem. Do you mean the space
of metric sections or do you mean the
space of pointwise metrics? So certainly
the space of metric sections is is very
much discussed. Pointwise metrics has
never really been focused
on. Now if you say something like that I
guarantee you somebody will pull out
papers from 1957 and Bryce Stewit looked
at this who knows what I don't
know but most people never induce a
Fbinius metric in their lives. And so it
come and this is one of the taxes that
you see is that if you do something
really different even if it's not like
developing a
new a new collection of
mathematics people have an idea I bet
there's one or two or maybe three
changes from what we usually do
and gu says I accept the standard model
I accept general relativity but
everything we do is slightly wrong. We
call we call Patise along by the wrong
name. We have the wrong grand unified
real forms of the group. SU5 is really
SU3 comma uh SU3 comma
2. SO10 is really spin 10 and spin 10 is
really spin 6 comma 4. Like the amount
of wear and tear on the mind to hear
somebody say no no no I I accept all
these things but we we've minorly got
everything shifted. I think is a huge
barrier to entry into
Gio. But anyway, you asked me why the
Fbinius metric. I don't
think you there are many different
metrics. I think there are
exactly four metrics if you don't add a
parameter to figure out how much trace
to how much traceless you want. In other
words, if it's only plus or minus one,
there are precisely four metrics you can
define and only four metrics you can
define. And two of them are consistent
with experiment and two of them are
ruled out by experiment. And the two
obvious ones are ruled out by
experiment. The trace reverse ones
remain in the game. And I, you
know, it is kind of fun because Einstein
forgot to trace reverse the reachi
tensor.
Mhm. And you know, it's like if I could
recapitulate anyone's mistake, that
would be the one I'd recapitulate.
So the observers, yeah, is it the same
as the metric bundle or is it the
tangent space of the metric bundle? the
tangent bundle to the metric. Well, the
observer is the package, you know, and
and here I was thinking actually a
little bit about growth and dee where
growth and dee replaced the concept of a
variety with the concept of a
scheme.
Um I don't want to say that the total
space is the observers. I it is the
bundles and the relationships and the
pullbacks like it is the package that is
the observers. Okay. So think about if
we
can I love the fact that you trust your
audience. So let's trust your audience.
Take an uh take a page from
object-oriented programming. In a class
definition, you've got member variables
and you've got bound
methods. So that's like stuff and stuff
you can do with and method and it's
you've got nouns, you got verbs. You got
stuff and you got things you can do with
the stuff. So that's what the observer
is. It's two
spaces with a a fiber and sections
connecting them and then it's bundles on
top of them. And if you wanted to talk
about like the the shift in perspective
from
Einstein, most of what we're going to do
in GU takes place not on X4, but on
Y14. Mostly we're not dealing with the
tangent bundle on Y14. the way Einstein
dealt mostly with the tangent bundle.
You're dealing with the spinner bundle
on
Y14. Mostly you're not dealing with the
Einstein Hilbert action. You're dealing
with this new action that has homology
to both the Einstein Hilbert action and
the churn Simons's action and additional
components that you've never there's
homology to both or analogy to both.
Sorry, you want to know funny the
biologists use homology to mean
similarity and so somehow I was in the
wrong part of my head. Um yeah, it has
similarity and analogy. I thought I
missed something. No, it's but it it's
it's very interesting. I I always tell
people that if somebody has a meaning to
the word ham puts a meaning to the word
Hamiltonian, you
know that they're in only one field
because it means one thing in civics,
one thing in physics and one thing in
biology because Hamilton is a great name
in the in human history. So yes, I
didn't mean homology in the sense of
algebraic topology.
Okay, let me tell you some of my gripes
when I was going through GU. Ah, I knew
this was going to be a gotcha interview.
And then I'll tell you some of what I
and then I'll I'll ease the wound in
part. You're negging me. Yes. Great.
Great. In
part, one of the reasons I made the
iceberg was so that I could understand
GU and also try to explain it to someone
else who if they have a differential
geometric background, they could
understand it. So mathematician or
physicist. So when I was going through
the paper, there were some terms. This
is why I think there's this is one
reason I think there's a a communication
gap. Please. Okay. So going through the
paper, there were some terms introduced
which were not used again like invasive
fields versus native fields. They were
introduced on like page six. And then I
did control F cuz I'm like did I miss
something? And this is like in film.
It's called check off's gun. And when
you're reading something, you want to
you want to know it's leading somewhere.
Yeah. So then because it takes up
working memory. Okay. So there was that
there was something you just did right
there with object-oriented programming.
You're like, okay, let me give you an
analogy. And then you go into
object-oriented programming. So in the
PDF, I believe you give an analogy.
You're like, if you don't know what
sections are, think of indifference
curves in economics. And and then I'm
thinking most mathematicians and
physicists don't know what indifference
curves are for foliations. I think
that's what it was. So then I'm like,
you want to stay in someone's field like
if you're explaining to them, not jump
outside and assume their competency
there. So for instance, if I said a
fiber bundle is like the entity class
component in video game architecture,
people are like, what the heck are you
talking about? Yeah, but but I I don't
know how to not do this. Okay. Well,
anyhow, so I was I'm sorry. Look, this
is wonderful because I'm aware that I do
this. I'm sorry that I do this. It's not
like I say this as a friend. I'm not
trying to This is not a gotcha. I don't
feel it's a gotcha. I think that to be
honest with you, if I can if I can play
with it. You and I are both facing the
same
problem, right? I I watch you across
different fields. You're not just the
physics guy. You're also in the
consciousness space. I think that you're
pretty responsible about all sorts of
things. I have no idea how it
is that we bridge this. And partially
what I love that you're doing is you
just throw things out. You try your best
to make them understandable. You try to
say them clearly, but the person has
access to chat GPT and Grock and you
know Claude, all these things. These are
great tools, okay? So use them. And by
the way, if you're convinced that you
and I are bad explainers, you've picked
the wrong time.
Mhm. Because you can sit there with one
of these AIs and say, "Make this make
sense to me." And the AI can't do it.
Well, if people watch this video that I
have on I don't know what the title is
currently cuz we keep changing the
title, but at one point it was explain
it like I'm five. Okkey dokie. That was
the original title. And I think
currently it's the this is hurting
popularizing of science something like
that. Currently it's it's this whole
explain it like a five and give me the
whole the give me the the simplistic
explanation. So if you watch okay so
then someone may say but Curts what
about these videos from Wired where a
mathematician goes through something at
five different levels. So then I give a
specific example with Emily Real a
professor of category theories known for
being the top category theorist. She's
been on the podcast before as well on
infinity categories. So, this was her
explaining infinity at five different
levels. And actually, if you watch it,
what she does is she explains something
about infinity, like something that's
unbounded, to a 9-year-old, not a
5-year-old. Okay? Then she explains
Hilbert's Hotel to someone else, right?
And then she explains
cardality. And then she explains the
axiom of choice and its equivalences.
But the point is but that that by the
end when she's speaking to another
professor she's speaking about infinity
categories. Yes. And also how you can
construct proofs by looking at one space
is some domain and the target space is a
proof and that's what a mathematical
theorem is. And then okay so now if you
look at it and you're like okay was that
explained at five different levels? No,
it was just
tangentially concepts related to this
that was explained to at five different
levels because the internet has its own
weird intellectualism that is
horrendous. I mean, let's just be
honest. What do you mean?
The internet wants to know all sorts of
things and it believes certain things.
Like one thing it believes is is that
you can watch a conflict between two
people on a topic that you can't
possibly understand and by looking at
body language and who's sweating and all
these things. Yeah, he he curb stomped
that guy.
No, both of them were wrong and one of
them was more polished and you know if I
put my shoulder back I I appear to be
more confident in my position. So the
internet is making us
incredibly broad.
It's informing us. It's making us
stupid. It's making us smarter. It's
distorting our relationships. You know,
like I I'm so glad we're doing this in
person cuz I can't stand doing
interviews over
Zoom. I didn't cauterize the wound. So,
allow me to say something. Sure.
What struck me about geometric
unity? At first, I thought it was
extremely convoluted. just that was just
my impression. I hadn't gone through the
material and then as I started to go
through it. So firstly I encountered new
terms being introduced which that was
something that I've I tried to overcome
in in the iceberg to explain it in the
way that I would explain it cuz I
wouldn't do your paper in the way that
you did your paper. Maybe I screwed up.
I'm open to it. I I tried to put some
order to it cuz it was a collection of
results, right? Like slime mold but in a
in a positive manner like many arms. So
I tried to put some narrative to it.
It's It's difficult too, but I try
to. What struck me was that it's
remarkably simple. I remember I said
that to you and I thought you'd be angry
at me. The highest compliment you could
possibly pay me because I know I know
how hard it is.
Look, Kurt, if I'm honest, I've
failed every year for 40 years to
communicate
this. And I want to say also that I make
it my living to go through different
people's theories of
everything. And sure, there are
shortcomings. There's shortcomings to
every theory of
everything. There's shortcomings. a
laundry list to string theory and string
theory has been around for decades. It
takes tens if not hundreds of minds to
solve a particular problem and it's not
even clear if it's been open and
shut. There's loop ponttogravity and so
on blah blah
blah. I haven't
seen such
a such novel ideas from a single theory
from a single person
sorry ever.
And I don't know if anyone else will
tell you this,
but what you've done is remarkable,
man. I don't even know how to be with
that to be
honest.
Look, thank you. Right. Like one of the
things that's just hard. Look, I'm not
trying to compliment you for the sake of
complimenting you. And I'm not saying
this as an endorsement that this is the
correct theory. I think this is I'm
saying this is fantastic and I don't
know who else will say that to you.
Well, look, you know, part of
what I wouldn't stay with anything for
this
long if I didn't believe in it. So, I
really believe in it. I believe it is
the answer. And I don't know how to be
with that. It's a very weird thing to
say, you know, and to have to promote
something. And I look at the distortions
in
myself. You know, very often when you
meet somebody who's got a history of
trauma, you can see that they're trying
to stop the things that have gone wrong
to begin with. There's this
wonderful interchange in Kung Fu Panda
where Ugay says to
Shifue, "We often meet our destiny on
the road we take to avoid it."
I couldn't understand why does the
world not see flakes of
this, right? One flake of
GU made it into the world and that's
what's now known as Cyborg Whitten. Now,
you have to be very careful. There's two
separate things that make up the
constellation that's called Cyborg
Whitten. There's the cyberwitten
equations which has what I'm talking
about as a flake of
GU and there's cyberw Whitten theory
which has nothing to do with anything I
know how to do. That's just some
wonderful thing that Natty Cyberg and Ed
Whitten came up
with. But the equations occurred around
1987 at Harvard as a flake of GU. And
and this is something that I don't know
that I agree with in your treatment of
GU. GU happens at two different layers.
The first thing you do is you do the
Einstein dac portion of the theory and
once you have the Einstein Dac portion
of the theory, there's a second
lrangeian in an action that gives you
the Yang Mills Higs in
addition. And so that's something that
probably you and I could work through
and I could and maybe I'd learned
something from you. You know, one of the
things I believe with you is you're not
just curating, you're actually in there
working on the theory. So what I would
say is that
um when I flaked that off at
Harvard, it was referred to as
insufficiently
nonlinear. And what's what's worse is
that my point about it was this is an
Einsteinian equation. It's not a Yang
Millsian
equation, right? Because there is no
derivative in front of the curvature
tensor. It belongs to the Einstein
sector now because all of Donaldson
theory and self-duality and instantons
was trumpeted as self-d Yang Mills
theory. People didn't understand what
part of speech it was. So I was having
an argument with people like Roman JKE
at
uh MIT and I would go around and talk to
people and they would say no no you
don't understand these equations. I
understand that they look physical to
mathematicians, but they're really only
instanton sector equations. So people
couldn't hear that I was actually
questioning that like isn't this really
an Einsteinian concept? And it sort of
predates something which I'm hoping to
see a a a Kurt Jungle treatment of,
which is the double copy problem, which
is the relationship that was discovered
through amplitudes between Yang Mills
and general relativity. It was entirely
unexpected in a certain sense. Einstein
is a square root of Yang Mills. But it's
not Einstein that's the square root.
It's a the thing that replaces Einstein.
Mhm. Is the square root of the thing
that replaces Yang Mills Higs. And so
when I flaked this off, there was no
interest in it. And what's more, it just
got me into trouble. So it's like I was
being punished for what I thought was
great
work after this was rediscovered by
Natty Cyberg and Ed Whitten around
1994 and I was in the lecture at MIT
where Ed Whitten puts this up and says
that there's a replacement for Donaldson
theory. He didn't say what it was. And I
believe Allan Nudson, who as I recall
was seated
uh below me and to the right as I faced
Ed Whitten in the audience, said in the
Q&A, "Do you want to tell us what these
equations are?" I think he's now a
professor at Cornell, and this is a
detail lost to history. And he writes
these two
equations. And I think if I recall
correctly, he used fi rather than sigh
for the spinner field
because well another thing I'd been told
was that I had violated spin statistics
and since I was talking about a
classical theory I had no idea why
anybody was telling me I was violating
spin statistics seven years earlier.
Okay, there's an entire story that
nobody knows about Harvard and
Cambridge, Massachusetts having a very
dim view of Princeton, Mass, Princeton,
New Jersey.
And the thought was we work very hard at
Harvard to get great results in
Donaldson theory and then Princeton
tells us after the fact, yeah, yeah, we
know all this stuff from quantum field
theory, but it's always like taking
credit for work we've already done at
Harvard and a very dramatic thing
happens. I don't think I want to tell
this full story here right now where
when the lecture is finally given it's
on the title of the lecture is Whiten's
magical equation I think there's no s on
the end of it now there were two
equations so it was like weird and
cyborg was nowhere in sight in the
title and the the professor at Harvard
you know 3 weeks later who was giving
this
lecture was the most dramatic lecture
I've ever seen it's like his entire
life's
work changed in an instant by equations
that he had called insufficiently
nonlinear. And he said, "If Ed Whitten
hadn't told
us, I never would have believed it." And
he looked directly at me afterwards
after saying
that. Because he had
said,
"No, you don't get it. you think this is
Einsteiny and this is Yang Millsy and
this is not enough nonlinearity and the
squaring of the spinner uh you can't
just replace SU2 by U1 blah blah
blah so that was like really dramatic
for me which is that a flake of this
theory could change the
world and it was clear that it was a
flake of the theory and there was zero
you know there was a conference
afterwards at Princeton well what is
this new set of equations that then was
called cyberwitten after that
lecture and I asked to speak at
it. It was ludicrous. Why should you
speak? It's like cuz those are my
equations. It's so hard to say. People
say well do you want credit for the
equation? No. Do you want them to be
called cyber written? That's fine. But
if if somebody if there was justice in
the world, the thing I would love to be
called them to be called is the
insufficiently nonlinear
equations because that's what they were
called for 7
years. Anyway,
look, that experience taught me that I
can't interact with the system. You you
do great work, you hand the work to the
system, and the system thinks nothing of
assigning the credit to somebody else.
Um, and that matters because that credit
was supposed to be health insurance, the
ability to raise children, to buy a
home, maybe even a second home. And when
credit is reassigned in academics, very
interesting. People have this whole act
that they do like, ah, who cares who who
gets the credit? The only thing that
matters is the underlying subject
matter. And then they fight tooth and
nail to get credit after saying that.
And they have names for this stuff. It's
called the Matthew effect. If you go to
Washington DC and you talk about the
problem that older people are stealing
credit from younger people or
reassigning names and who knows what,
they say, "Oh, it's just the Matthew
effect." It's like that's just the
casting couch in uh in Hollywood. You're
like, "You are talking about rape or
some sort of very serious coercion."
Yeah, it's just the casting couch. Well,
in in in academics, it's called the
Matthew and the Matilda effect. The
Matilda effect is that we don't credit
women
um with results if they raise it. You
know, colloquially known as heap
heeding. So what is the claim? I know
you want to just perhaps save it for
another time. Is the claim that Witten
or someone close to Witten took those
equations from you or independently came
up with? Absolutely
not. Ed Whitten is as brilliant as you
could possibly be. Those equations
probably came from Natty
Cyberg. I Natty and I have talked about
this. Natty said I never understood what
the big deal about the equations uh was.
To this day, he still doesn't understand
or at the time No, I think he doesn't
understand. I think he's a physicist and
Ed, you know, look, I will say some some
some serious
things. It's not really clear what Ed
Whitten is, and I think that's fine. And
I don't needed to name it, but when you
say Jackie Chan is an actor who does all
his own
stunts, you're totally missing it.
Jackie Chan is a stunt man who does all
of his own acting. So far as I know, Ed
Whitten is the world's greatest
differential
geomet, right? The math is really the
impressive stuff. The physics has never
gotten to the same level.
And because that's so counternarrative,
one of the things that's really
important in academics is that there's a
single official narrative just the way
there is a single blockchain. There's
consensus about what happened, who did
it. We all know that it's sort of not
right. But we we agree to officially
talk about a story. The story is
completely wrong. And that's one of the
reasons
why you can't really do this from
podcast space. You can't contradict the
official narrative in the
journals. There's so much that's just
wrong. And Ed Whitten did not steal
this. Natty Cyber and I bet also
resolved this. When Natty Cyber got $3
million
uh for the Breakthrough Prize, he and I
encountered each other at a San
Francisco fundraising event for the
institute. And this is a very dramatic
story. I won't tell the whole part of
it, but we hugged it out at the end and
we accepted. It's like I don't have a
beef with Natty Cyber
Eden on that front.
The problem was is that
Harvard had a very clear perspective and
that is we do incredible nonlinear
analysis. That's why we get the results.
It was a morality play because we do
better nonlinear analysis than anyone
else. We get better top topological
results than anyone else including
Donaldson and the point was no you guys
landed in the new world and you built an
entire city the first site that you
found and you built it in the swamp and
that's why your lives are so difficult.
just go over there and you build your
city and everything will be fine. And
they they didn't want to hear
it. And then when they when they
realized how how wrong they'd been for a
decade, then it became like this rush to
credit the great Whitten
um who is great. And by the way,
cyberwitten theory, which I have no
claim on whatsoever. I have this the
equations yes the theory
no I don't know whether anyone fully
understands it to this day I mean it's
an unbelievable
achievement I didn't have that I I
really saw it as general relativity and
part of the one of the most
uncomfortable things about geometric
unity partially why I've held things
back and haven't handled things
great in the end it'll become very
clear where the cyber witten equations
came from. They came from Einstein, not
Yang Nells.
About holding back with Geometric Unity,
have you thought about publishing it on
the archive?
Yeah, I tried to get access to the
archive at some point and I think I
can't remember how many. Publishing
access you mean cuz anyone can access
it. Oh, you Yes. Write rather than read.
Okay. Okay.
I think at first you could and then you
needed to have
aedu
and you
know it's like why should there be aedu
requirement who who it's like we don't
serve negroes here. Oh really? I know
that sounds fine to your ears but
doesn't sound good to mine. As Muhammad
Ali and uh Dick Gregory said that's
okay. I don't need to uh
Yeah. Then I I think I interacted with
Paul Ginspar and he said, "No, no, no.
This doesn't apply to you. We'll get you
a special exemption." And then I was
like, "Why do I get a special
exemption?" And a friend of mine just
got his paper that I read turned down by
the archive. There are people there's a
string theorist on the archive committee
who says, "No, no, you can't post." So I
think people have this idea
Why don't you just submit things? It's
like maybe you don't understand the
critique. You haven't you haven't
succeeded in over 50 years moving the
lrangeian of fundamental
physics. Do you understand that part of
the
critique is the way peer review works,
the way credit is aortioned, the way
disputes are adjudicated is the problem.
Your culture is decaying. You were no
longer the people who were able to do
the standard model. You've accepted such
a degraded state in your culture that
your institutions are repugnant to me. I
don't I don't apply for your grants
either. I'm trying to I would love for
GU to be evaluated with my H index as
low as it could possibly be. If I could
have an H index of zero, if I could do
this with no
PhD, I'd love
that. But everybody pays lip service to
no, nobody cares where it comes from.
Nobody cares about But everybody does.
Everybody's just we're just we're a
deeply hypocritical culture. We don't
realize we've abandoned science. We've
abandoned mathematics. We have where we
used to have the scientific method. We
have what might now be termed the
academic method. Ah what's what's the
impact factor? What's your h index? like
who cares what's what's
girdles. So the answer is I'm not I'm
not against sharing it but I'll tell you
what will not
happen. Um I have a joke that I tell.
What's the difference? People have to
say why do you say it's a work of
entertainer or that you're an
entertainer? I say okay what's the
difference between a professor of
physics and an
entertainer? An entertainer has rights.
I reject wholeheartedly things that
other people have never even heard
of. There's a concept called restricted
data that exists nowhere else in US law.
Do you know about it? No. the 1946 and
195 I'm going to say something that's
going to sound totally crazy and after
I'm done saying the totally crazy thing
go ask chat GPT whether I was accurate
put in the portion of the transcript
right cool I like doing this now it's
it's a great new
thing in 1946 and
1954 we passed the Atomic Energy Acts
and if you couple that to something
called the 1917 Espionage Act there is a
question that occurs which sounds
totally
outlandish. Can you put be put to death
for doing theoretical physics?
Well, now you ever heard of the zone of
death theory in Yellowstone National
Park? No. Some legal scholar figured out
that there's a sliver of Yellowstone
that is not in Wyoming, but is in Idaho
where no one lives. And if you committed
a crime on federal land in Idaho where
there is no one living, you would have
to impanel a jury from people who lived
there. So you could actually commit
murder if you could lure somebody into
the Idaho portion of Yellowstone.
Like it's an unexploited vulnerability
in our legal to this day. Yeah, I think
so.
I don't think anyone's done it, but I I
think it's actually been used in as a
trope in like movies or
something. Okay, here's a crazy one.
Most physicists do not know that if you
do any work on a napkin that could
possibly influence a nuclear
weapon, it is automatically qclassified
without anyone in the government
choosing to Qclassify your work. And
this is technically known, you can look
this up in a search engine as born
secret. Okay. If you seek Q
classified material without a Q
clearance, that can be viewed as treason
and you can be put to death under. So if
you combine 1946
1954 atomic energy acts which have a
provision against free speech found
nowhere else in the law and I can't
believe you're not warned about this
when you start when you sign up to do
physics.
Chat GPT told me yes it is technically
possible to execute someone for doing
theoretical physics correctly if it
creates any change in uh the theory
around nuclear weaponry because you're
seeking a Q clearance document without Q
clearance. So my claim
is I don't think the average physicist
has a clue what physics is, where it's
been, what the national security
architecture is around it. I don't think
they know that the department of energy
is really the department of
physics, right? Which was created out of
uh the end of the '7s in the Carter
administration because
yeah, if physics is serious national
security and if you fail at it long
enough, you just think it's an academic
subject.
But this is so dangerous. This is so
powerful that we go to a movie called
Oppenheimer and we see like, oh, there's
Fman, you know, there's
Beta, there's Teller, yeah, all those
guys, you know, wiped out two Japanese
cities. This is this is no joke. And we
don't connect it to what we do because
what we do doesn't work. This is what I
call Nerf physics. I don't know if we've
ever discussed this. No, but I want to
get back to So, you you wanted access to
the archive, right? Access. Mhm. They
said you need an edu edu email address.
They then said, "Well, we'll make an
exception for you." And then you didn't
want that 10 years ago, 20 years ago.
Why didn't you want to publish on the
archive? I did. Everybody wants to
start. Look, everybody starts by wanting
to play the game,
right? And then I did.
Suddenly I'm missing my work. It's
attributed to somebody
else. I was just like oh well
publication would I triggered that
system in the 80s. So my experience
isn't the same as the professor who says
oh you know you submit stuff sometimes
it gets rejected you put take it to
another journal. Of course, there are,
you know, times when you want to submit
something to, let's say, uh, heep phth
and they tell you, "No, no, that's
really heep ph." So, the idea is it's
kind of annoying. It's a little bit
cumbersome. It's bothersome. Sometimes
somebody gets more credit than you think
they should deserve. That's not my
experience. My experience is totally
different. My experience was it's a
secret world that has all sorts of ways
that it works that aren't advertised and
if you talk about it, you're treated
like a crazy person. But I can point I'm
like one of the world experts on what
doesn't work in academics. And what I've
seen is
oh you know good friend of mine in the
last two weeks had a paper PhD in
physics not accepted no reasons given on
the archive. It's like what does it cost
you to store this on the archive? Oh no
no didn't tell didn't say it's bad.
Didn't say it's
wrong. the the system isn't what you
think it is. It's never been what people
think it is. There's some sort of an
agreement not to talk about it. Like if
I if I say peer review has not existed
uh back to the beginning of the Royal
Society, outside review has, peer review
hasn't. Peer review is mostly a response
in
1975 to something called man a course of
study. It originally comes out of Utah.
Um, and it has to do with the Great
Society programs which in the mid60s are
passed that makes the federal government
the main payer for Medicare. And so what
it really was was a defense by the
physicians from having the government
pry into their pricing
um because suddenly the government was
paying for everything. It was it's the
peer says you're not good enough to
supervise what we do in medicine. Okay.
Wait, wait, wait. Let me just finish it
out. Sure.
If you have the belief that the system
works pretty
well, then I understand you completely.
You you want to know why aren't you
following the
rules? Well, my my point is it didn't
work well when I tried interacting with
it repeatedly over and over and over
again. If you do something different
enough, you get a very different
experience. And that's sort of what I'm
trying to say, which is like I tried, I
believed, I got burned.
Why is it that I have to go back to the
same casting couch, to the same director
to be put into a movie? No, I'll start
my own studio. I'm not going into that
office. I'm not going to play that game.
I'm just not going to do it. Now, if you
told me, "Hey, we we've heard you. You
want to make sure that you understand
that credit matters to you. If I'm the
only person in physics, the credit
matters, too." I'm happy to say that on
camera. Everybody else credit matters
too. It's it's the lifeblood. It depends
whether you know can you afford to have
another child? Can you afford to be in
the same city as your spouse? How is it
that that doesn't matter? It's
it academics and physics is
suffused with a totally insane level of
duplicity. Of course, credit matters and
it's and it
should. I'm not playing with people who
are that disingenuous. They only How
often have you heard this? The only
thing that really matters is the truth.
Please don't bother me with with
sociology. Yeah, I had a terrible
experience. The number of people who've
had terrible experiences is insanely
large. We could do an entire channel
that every week featured a different
academic horror story. Yes, the people
who remain in the system have agreed to
say, "Oh, it works pretty well." No, it
doesn't. Clearly, it doesn't. So, I have
the internet. I have a very large
channel. I'm probably the most followed
mathematician on planet
Earth. And I will forever pay a price by
not wanting to play the game with people
who stole something from
me. By the way, I highly recommend
looking at um Alexander Groand's reject
rejection of the Crawford Prize where he
says, "I won't participate in a culture.
I will not take money from a culture
that now believes that it is that theft
from young
people is absolutely acceptable to the
profession. So I'm with him.
So my understanding he said that after
the university started accepting
military funding and he was extremely
anti-military.
He was a guy with a certain kind of
integrity who I think got driven mad by
having that
integrity. Like look, let me just be
honest and forthcoming about a very
crazy sounding thing. Imagine Gu is
right. Let's let's go on that branch of
the decision
tree. If it's right, this is the most
crazy dramatic story anyone's ever
heard. It's it's it's dramatic
scientifically. It's dramatic
personally. Just it's a big deal. If
it's wrong, none of this is true. And
I'm living in a Walter Mitty world and
that's fine. But it's not like I'm not
aware of it.
My goal is not just to benefit from
this, but I wish to help out science. I
wish to help out many of the people
whose names are not on their results,
who are not employed currently after
having done great work like Doug Doug
pressure and green fluorescent
protein. Terrible
story. My goal is to break peer review.
My goal is to open the archive to anyone
credential so that there is no committee
sitting over it. My goal is to get the
national security apparatus to come out
of the shadows and say look this is
serious business. We need to classify
this. We should have fights with them
about what should be open, what should
be classified.
I wish to change science and get it much
closer to what we think about with the
scientific method with norms of
collegiality and decency to each other
where we are progressing in the science.
We are not a
medieval theological debating society
about angels and heads of kabi yao pins
and all that kind of nonsense.
This is broken. And I refuse to be
referenced to a system that can't buy a
base hit in 51 years, 52
years. It doesn't
work. Why do I care about my colleagues
opinions if they're not leading
physicists? The leading physicists of
today are not leading physicists.
There's no proof that they're doing
physics.
like Frank Wilchek. I recognize him. I
talked to Frank,
right? In
general, we're not really doing science
anymore. And I don't want to I I don't
want to spend our time on
this. I want to talk to you about three
generations. I want to talk about SU3
cross SU2 cross U1.
The problem is is that somehow the only
people who know what those things
are are the are the survivors suffering
for from survivor bias in a system that
doesn't work. So more or less 100% of my
seated colleagues are people who got
through the system without raising much
of a fuss about something that obviously
is unethical, not civil, not collegial,
and doesn't work.
So, yeah, I'm happy to be wrong, but the
problem is is that it sets me up in this
absolutely monotonous
um pattern of opposition. Eric, why are
you so arrogant? Eric, why are you so
forceful? Oh, only because I'm opposing
10,000 people who are all in lock step,
who believe the same things, and aren't
getting anywhere. Yeah.
So, I'm confused.
Anyways, so if you were willing to
publish on the archive before and you
still had the trauma of having credit
taken from you and so on, but you were
willing to and then there was this
conversation that you don't have an edu,
but you could also get an edu just by
emailing Harvard the places. No, no.
There's something called
post.harvard.edu that they stopped
accepting because that meant that you
were an alum, but you weren't active.
Interesting. There's a game going back
and forth.
Okay. I I think you should have Jacques
Distler on your podcast and ask him
these questions. Let's I'd rather do
science. And then you said that there's
no proof that these people who are
dealing in fundamental physics for the
past 50 years have are doing anything
related to physics. Then what if someone
said, "Okay, but what's the proof? GU
has anything to do with fundamental
physics?"
Well, this is the thing I was trying to
talk about when you deafly steered me
away if I may. There's something I call
not even remotely physics. Now, the
acronym for that is Nerf physics. So,
you can tell how many safeties are on
the gun and how far you are away from
doing. Does your theory put dimension 4
uh in pride of place? If you're working
in dimension three or dimension 10, if
you're not highly focused on dimension
four to begin with, that's a strike
against you. Do you have one temporal
dimension to begin with? If so, you're
doing real physics. If you're in
uklitian signature, generally speaking,
you're not doing real
physics. Do you have SU3 somewhere in
the structure group of your model? If
you're only using SU2 or U1, you're not
wrestling with quantum chromodnamics.
That's a strike against
you. Do you have three generations of
firmians, which is a feature of our
world? That's an artificiality. No, no,
no. I'm only worrying about one
collection of firmians. Okay. If I look
at the sheer number, oh, does your Higs
field value itself in the adjint
representation of your structure group?
That's not what the real Higsfield does.
So, I could take a new metric and we
could pass an AI over it and say, how
many papers Oh, one last one. I forgot
this is is your work phrased in the
language of geometry and bundle
theory? If you just take those things
where I would imagine the average paper
would be a four-dimensional manifold,
one time dimension, SU3 would be
included. There'd be three generations
of
matter and it would be phrased in
bundles and connections in
geometry. I believe essentially the
number of people
working in actual
physics approaches zero and that that is
a decidable proposition as to whether I
am right or wrong.
I believe essentially physics has
stopped at its most fundamental
level and we can just test it. So if
you're out there, do me a
favor, write a script that uses AI,
regular expressions, and checks papers,
ingests PDFs, and checks how many of
those
safeties are on the gun. I don't want to
work in 10 dimensions before I get to
four. I don't want to work with no time
dimensions. I don't want to work if SU3
isn't in the picture. And I don't want
to pretend that you can do this without
bundle theory. I believe that
effectively no one is doing
physics. Full
stop. Okay. Now, what if someone said
that this metric that you came up with
with six or so
criteria that your theory will fall
through that civ? So, it stops other
theories cuz they didn't satisfy it.
Yours goes through. Okay. No, we're
start you're starting from a wrong
premise. The standard model and general
relativity, we all
accept. I I think if you don't accept
them as effective theories governing our
world, you're really not part of a
serious conversation. I think Sean
Carroll is exactly right about that. He
said it on your show. He said, "You have
a theory. That's great. Well, I have a
theory. My theory is called the standard
model." I heard those words from him.
Why is the standard model his theory?
That's just how he said it. He didn't
mean that he developed it, but it he he
did sound a little bit like Colonel
Jessup saying, "The brand blanket of
freedom I provide is something you,
Lieutenant Cathy, should be grateful
for." Okay.
Okay. Is the standard
model after uh the Wuyang dictionary in
bundles? Yes. Is it on a four manifold?
Yes. Is it one, three? Yes. Does it have
three generations? Yes. It's does it
have SU3? In other words, the theory
that we all
agree goes through that civ. We all
agree on the standard model. It goes
through the
civ. I'm not coming up with something
that selects my theory. I'm saying that
any theory that is trying to go beyond
the standard model and general
relativity will have these
characteristics.
Okay? And by the way, if I'm wrong, and
let me just look right. If I'm wrong,
write the script. I'm happy to come back
on the show and say I was
wrong. Where I was going is that there
are other people who have their own
checklists and it tends to be a
checklist that their theory passes. So
for instance, Wilfrram may say something
like we have to explain why these laws,
not any other law, and we have to
explain observers and his theory
purports to solve both of those. So he
says those are the most important. So I
find that when I'm dealing with people
in the field of of theories of
everything I am engaging in special
pleading.
I took the assignment to be going beyond
the standard model means going beyond
the standard
model and I took going beyond general
relativity to mean going beyond general
relativity.
And I took the idea that it should be on
a napkin to mean it should develop from
very few
assumptions. These are things everyone
repeats and no one follows. We all talk
about this, you know what the the
scientific method is, we don't follow
it. We talk about what attribution
should be. We don't follow it. We pass
laws, we don't know that they exist.
We're living in like looney land. And so
what I'm doing is I'm saying I see your
collective fictions. I have collective
fictions of my own. It's not like I I
don't understand what a collective
fiction is, but I'm not going to get any
science done if I live in your collected
fictions. So my claim is I took those
that's a core set of assumptions. If you
have additional
assumptions, I understand that. But I'm
claiming that nothing passes even
those. Like for example, GU is not
phrased as a quantum theory.
So what do you imagine the quantization
procedure to be for GU ultimately? It's
a little confusing. It's not so
confusing if you think about it
downstairs on the base
space. The big problem is is that it's
not
one. The difference between zero
temporal dimensions, one temporal
dimension, and multiple temporal
dimensions is enormous. With zero
temporal dimensions, you're an elliptic
theory and you have access to a TS
singer and all the great stuff that
comes with that. If you have one
dimension, we know a lot about
Hamiltonian dynamics and development and
initial
conditions. Problem is, if you have two
or more temporal dimensions, you're in
something called ultra hyperbolic
equations. And very few people can think
in two or more temporal
dimensions. GU has several things. This
is something that like is a great
pleasure to be able to talk about. What
am I critical about? GU, you know, like
that's not a question that I get much. I
didn't ask that, but I'm curious to
know. I'm glad you asked that of
yourself. So, for
example, I don't know how to deal with
ultra hyperbolic
equations. So, if I think upstairs on
the 14 manifold, I'm not there are no
initial conditions because that's a
co-dimension one concept. really what
you have is boundary conditions and now
good luck I I don't I think I had to be
told that the koshi problem was well
posed in ultra hyperbolic equations it's
not something I yeah but this is not
stuff I know so it's a good
example if I'm not if you know the
entire concept of physics is that I have
an initial state I wouldn't that mean
there's no koshi horizon
I don't I believe that they are well
posed but I I don't
know. I don't know how to push
Hamiltonian
dynamics in multiple temporal
dimensions. Is the bundle trivial?
Which bundle? The metric bundle?
Uh, it depends on the topology. Well,
the reason I say that is cuz in GU
there's a global section. So, you can't
take a global section unless the
bundle's trivial.
There isn't a global section. You're
talking about the metric section. No,
no, no. That that was a thing that you
actually cut. This is fun because like I
I now get to actually have a meaningful
argument. Um, didn't we agree that there
are patches on which there's only a
connection defined on the tangent
bundle? And then where you're doing
observations is where you have the
metric defined. And that's one of the
ways in which we get around some of the
quantum gravity problems. Okay. So,
let's let's let's go, man. Because just
like you've forgotten much of GU or you
have to reintroduce it to yourself. Same
with myself. But by the way, thank you
for saying that because when when I when
when I say things like I forgot aspects
of this, this is like a city where you
you don't remember what your work is
from 17 years ago and it's stored in
some piece of paper you can't find all
that kind of stuff. Yeah. My
recollection is the PDF has IOTA which
is a local section and then it has
Gimmel which is a global section. But
I'm saying that the existence of the
gimmel implies that the bundle's
trivial. This is interesting. This is a
problem I never had before because
occasionally I would have to do a
refactor of the theory because I
realized that the the notation was
cumbersome or it conflicted with some
there only so many letters all that kind
of
stuff. Uh so then this was my other
critique Hebrew.
So there are other letters that are used
not much by mathematicians other than in
cardality Hebrew letters that were used
in GU. So and then there were some that
I chose to keep in and if I was to
introduce this to a friend a fresh I
wouldn't use the variation pi which was
funny cuz I called it variational pi
which in math there's something called
taking the variation and I didn't mean
that. I know. But so so you made an
error and and the thing is is that the
error is now immortalized in the video.
But the point is I put in a pause to
emphasize that. And also the point that
I left in please the different notation
because it's my understanding that you
implemented that notation to honor
certain people and I don't have that
same relationship to those people. So I
don't honor them. Even though your
honoring tramls your explanations, it's
that communication gap I mentioned. Pi
is my
wife, Zeta is my
son, new is my daughter, and I'm
epsilon. And so I wanted us to be
together. It's also that's a humble view
of yourself to give yourself epsilon.
Look, I'm the roadie for a group of
superstars. Epsilon is usually
dimminative. So that was the joke. Yeah,
let's let's I'm uncomfortable being
here. Look, I'm sharing that with you,
but like it's very important to me that
some jerk doesn't come in and say,
"We're going to change all the
notations." Like, no, these people
suffered for this theory, and I'm going
to make sure that we're going to write
their name. We're going to burn their
names into the theory. And and by the
way, that the Hebrew letters, it matters
to me, too. You know, I come from a tiny
tiny community that is always in danger
of being wiped out for reasons that we
can go into, but it's a scary thing.
Yeah, I can make it worse. I can call
um the base space ars for the land and
the total space hashim. No, I'm saying
you ask me a question, I'm answering it
because I'm proud of my people. And to
be honest with you, the tow
homorphism which is not just the gauge
group being included simply trivially
into the first factor. The toao comes
from the Hindi concept of being terra or
slanted.
Right? So I didn't say that but at some
point I had a devagri character and then
I found that people just really didn't
like it. And so I said, "That's too
bad." Because I run out of letters
regularly. And I'm very proud of our
family's Indian heritage. And so I
wanted to honor India as well as I
wanted to honor uh Jews in Israel. So
yeah, that's a personal choice and I get
to make it and I'm pretty unapologetic
about it. So I'm sorry if you have to
learn Gimmel and you have to learn ALF.
It's pretty painless and it's over
quickly.
What else have you not said about Gu?
So great. Um, one of my beliefs about GU
is that GU gets a lot of its power from
the fact that it's willing to consider
uh killing forms that are not positive
definite. Yeah. How do you deal with
unbounded spectra? Well, I don't know.
What my claim is is that we don't know
how nature deals with it because we're
shielded because of maximal compact
subgroups.
In other words, what is picking out spin
6 cross spin 4 as the petis salon model
is maximal compact inside of a different
real form of spin 10 than the so 10
theory. So in the SO10 theory, if you
ask, well, what's the maximal compact?
It's just the whole group. But how
you're getting somehow from the D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D5
Dinkan diagram down to spin 6, spin 4 is
that nature is saying somehow I'm going
to handle this indefinite killing
form, but I'm not going to show you yet
because you haven't gotten that. So I'm
just going to show you the compact
subgroup to which it is broken. Okay,
that's totally different intellectually
completely from saying no nature can't
do that because uh this will lead to
problems and cause out. No, nature's not
listening to what you can do today and
what you can't do today. You also have a
well how do you do a fineman integral?
Nobody knows, right? Unless it's unless
it's very restricted. Okay, but you're
using it you're using a bunch of
analogies. Who
said I can't go into technical debt and
say I don't know how she's going to
quantize this theory. The reason I have
it is a classical theory. It's not that
I don't understand anything about
quantum
theory. It's that almost certainly the
physics community is mostly confused. Of
course, you can have an indefinite
group. We have we have spin one, three
that we're forced to deal with. And if
everybody understands the rest of the
theory, I hope that one of the biggest
uh one of the most important agendas
becomes, okay, we've got to learn to
deal with an indefinite killing form.
Let's let's get our best people on it.
Right now, we write an occasional paper
like Whitten's written on this. Um, so
that's a early supergravity theories you
have gauge that that were non-compact.
They did some cul though, but it was
still non-compact. Yeah, there's that on
the multiple time and you know like I
think Steven Weinstein philosopher who
does physics at Perimeter Institute
ultra hyperbolic there's it's it's like
bars two time physics so if GU is right
what it should do is to say look Eric
took on technical debt in order to do
this
thing let's pay it back and that's that
by the way that's normal science what
does pay back do you mean solve it do
you know what technical debt is in in
computing. That's again one of my Yeah,
please explain. So sometimes you do
something that is kind of not right
while you're coding and you say, "Okay,
well I'm taking on technical debt. I
have to fix this somehow, but right now
I'm just going to do this now." And then
being expedient sort of. Yeah. It's it's
like a a stop gap measure that you has
to go back and fix.
Okay. Yeah. So my claim is is that one
of the ways that things have gone
horribly wrong with critique. I think
most of the critiques in physics are not
critiques. And what you see
is there's a huge difference between
saying let me understand you first, let
me steal man you second, and let me give
criticism that is constructive third.
That is normal to me. And and by the
way, I actually weirdly modeled this
with Terren Howard. Let me see if I
understand you in your own terms first.
Let me put your bet best foot forward
relative to my community, the math
community second. And let me give you
criticism only after I've done those two
steps. Yeah, I don't think your real
genius is Gu. I think it was making
sense of Terren Howard in real time.
You know, Terrence is a perfect example
of we tell everybody, everybody can be a
scientist. you can learn this on your
own. We don't care about credentials and
if you ever try that, we're just going
to laugh and laugh and laugh and laugh
and I think it's terrible. And I I'm
still friends with Terrence and I will
tell anybody Neil deGrasse Tyson totally
missed the fact that Terrence took a
regular tetrahedrin and spanned the
aphine group which is a six-dimensional
group with six almost regular pentagons
arbiting the difference between 108°
internal angle and a 109.47 47 and
change uh angle inside the vertices from
the center of a tetrahedrin. Genius
move. Lots of stuff I think is garbage.
Terrence laughs and laughs and laughs at
me saying that I he's like, "You talked
about the baby in the bathwater." You
know what? We're colleagues. We're
friends. I don't think he's a
mathematician. I don't think he's a
physicist. I think he's got some great
ideas. I think he's got some good ideas.
I think he's got some lousy ideas. We
don't do that. And I think it's really
important to talk about this, but I do
want to get back to the science. What we
do is we pretend we we the community of
academicians, if you come into my office
and you say, "Hey, I've got a really
crazy theory. I want you to listen to
it, take it seriously, and give me
feedback." We're sort of, we know we're
obligated to do some of that. We first
we find out we're incredibly busy. So
the person who's incredibly busy is then
playing pingpong in the lounge and doing
all sorts of other
thing. The next thing we do is we try to
find the critique which causes us not to
have to listen ever again. If I can just
find one flaw, we can dismiss your
theory. It's not how science works at
all. And there's a question about did
you ever steal man the theory to begin
with? I think the
first I think the
GU went 41 years without ever being
steelman. Like that's
impossible. You I could steal man
Garrett Ley, Peter White, string theory,
loop quantum gravity, all of them. In
general, it takes about 45 minutes to an
hour to get the gist of a an idea in
this world.
takes much more as you know to fill it
in but I take as almost proof the GU is
really interesting and different in that
there are no steelmans of
it. It's just a portrayal of a crazy
person talking garbage on the internet
which is not can I say it's not true
it's
false there's so much there and and
simple stuff I was just meeting with Lee
Smolan uh at his home in Toronto
today I said you know Lee one generation
of standard fir model firmians is just
the pullback of a vile spinner properly
understood from the space of pointwise
Laurens metrics to the four-dimensional
manifold. And he started talking about
something else. I said, "Did you hear
what I
said? I want to talk about GU." Yeah,
let's do that. Something I endeavor to
do with this channel is to understand
the theory of someone to the point where
recapitulating it back to them is met
with agreement, and only then do I think
I've apprehended it. And so, when you're
saying that that should be the first
step, I wholeheartedly agree.
I hope you felt like
I didn't misrepresent Gu.
I hope you felt that I didn't
misrepresent Gu because, you know, to be
honest, keeping something alive while
wanting to be open to the serious
critique, wanting to make sure credit
isn't taken away at the same time as not
wanting to interfere with the
scientific, it's impossible. There's no
way of solving this this puzzle
currently. What what's interesting is is
that we're talking about a group of
people who have appointed themselves the
border collies of academia. And anytime
somebody starts to stray and say, "I
want to self-publish. I don't really
think that um this is the correct story,
whatever, they slam that person and that
person is pushed back into, well,
clearly you're a self-promoter." It's
like, really? Have you looked at what
your university has put out in terms of
PR releases with the lousy research with
the huge claims etc etc have you once
talked about the problem of the leading
people in the field totally
misrepresenting things you there are
certain tells that they're not even
aware of that show you that they're not
interested in the underlying subject
matter what they're very interested in
is we've got to make sure nobody
arbitragees the flaws in the system and
I'm here to arbitrage the flaws in the
system because they are flaws
in that system. Now, when it comes to
steel
manning, that's a really special moment
because you get a chance to
see whether the person has not only
understood something but added
something. And that's one of the things
that I got out of your
treatment of Gio. I think that there are
places where you say wrong things, but
then you know what? There are places
where I say wrong things. And what isn't
true is that when you say something
wrong, the theory collapses. Or if
there's a flaw that you weren't aware
of, or there is a flaw that you were of
aware of that the theory collapses. This
is part of this different academic
method which
says the outside world can't tell the
difference between a colleague trying to
be a colleague and assassin
trying to destroy something or steal it.
There's a horrible phrase that I learned
in graduate school called gripe and
swipe where the idea is you complain
about something and say it's incomplete,
it's flawed, it can't work. And the idea
is that now you know as much about the
theory and if you can fix the flaws then
it belongs to you. It's one of the
reasons I'm an entertainer. I'm not an
academic because there's no such thing
as gripe and swipe. If I if I if I
release a con a version of a song and it
could be
improved, it doesn't become that
person's song without dealing with the
issue of copyright. I don't know if
copyright will protect you. I don't mean
copyright really legally. It's an
unexplored area of the law. Oh, no, no,
no. I mean in the math sense of you
publishing something related to math,
claiming it as an entertainer. I don't
believe copyright covers that. Well, you
know, there was a point where John
Stewart reported the news by saying he
was reporting the fake news. He would
say, "And now the fake news," and then
he would say real things that weren't
sayable on CNN or
NPR. I'm an entertainer. Let's leave it
at
that. Let's get back to GU. Okay, so I
want to know what is GU. Now, I know
that's an odd question to ask someone
after I've investigated it as long as I
have, but the reason I say that is that
I've heard you say more than once. Can't
recall where, so I can't place the
citation on screen, but it was something
akin to, look, Dra should have had the
convictions courage of his convictions
when it came to
predicting an antiparticle
to the electron. Okay? And the reason
was something like he proposed a
theory actually he proposed a specific
instantiation of a theory. So you take
something here that's a theory a theory
the theory cloud raify it and then this
gets disproved and then you say well the
theory itself has not been disproved. So
then that can sound like from the
outside as hedgic like I'm going to put
forward whatever GU is. Someone could
find critiques then I can retreat up
here and say but what GU is has not been
disproved. You've disproved my
explanation of GU. Yeah. So what is G?
Like what is it that you see is up here.
Sure. What makes GU GU such that if you
were to see it in the wild, someone
would say a wild GU appears? This is
such a great question, Kurt. I really
appreciate this. Um, you ever you ever
seen the zen of Python?
No. There's this thing called the zen of
Python, which tries to reduce the Python
programming aesthetic
to, you know,
uh, to a list of 24 zen colons. and or
or 26 or whatever it is. Yeah.
Um you know you're in
GU where you when you replace the
inhomogeneous Lorent group with the
inhomogeneous gauge group. You know
you're in GU where you spend most of
your time on a 14 manifold rather than
on a four manifold where the 14 manifold
is constructed from the four manifold.
You know you're in GU when there are no
internal symmetry groups. You know
you're in GU when the Higs
field comes out of an advalued one form.
You know you're in GU when you begin
with a four manifold. Use it to
construct a 14 manifold that behaves
like a three
manifold. You know you're in GU. Just a
moment. So you're referring to churn
simus theory.
And
yeah, there are two beautiful lrangeians
that are incredibly different that both
result in oiler lrange equations where
there's a curvature tensor and then you
called me out on this very well. I
really appreciate it. I often say that
something is a projection operator and
you point out that it's a contraction
operator which is quite you were
correct. I'm wrong. Cool. Yeah.
Um my belief is that Einstein was the
first person to really
relate a curvature to
form to an implied gauge potential by
taking his contraction operator to get
the Einstein tensor capital G mu new
from the remon tensor. That thing
there's two branches, right? There's a a
branch that uses the star operator to do
this little trick which is called the
churn Simons branch and then there's the
Einstein
contraction and both of those result in
oiler lrange equations with the
curvature tensor with a contraction
um that gets you from two forms to one
forms. That's how you know you're in GU
because you're using the equivariance
that's provided in having the gauge
group like why why are we failing to
quantize gravity from I I claim that
there answers to
this there are people that I didn't know
about until I started talking about GU
called McDow and Mansuri who tried to
get
uh gravity to come out of a gauge theory
on potentials. Now, their thing I think
doesn't work because you don't use the
space A of gauge potentials. You work on
a group. By the way, there's another
one. You know, you're in GU when you
take Einstein's unified field concept
much more seriously than the need to
quantize
gravity. Right? In GU, unified field
means something. It's algebraically
unified. And the idea is you start with
the inhomogeneous gauge group and then
you effectively super symmetriize it and
that is the gauge content. So you're
doing I I love this aspect. You're doing
field content that is an algebraic
gadget. Um boy there's so many
questions. Okay. May I linger? Yeah. By
the way, we can also do a multi-part
series at some point later. But this is
the teaser. Effectively super
symmetriized. Yeah. So that was
something that confused me before. So my
understanding and you can correct me if
I'm incorrect is that in the '7s there
was super symmetry. Yes. So I forget who
invented it in 1971. In 1973 there was
Wesumino as far as I recall. In 1974
there was Strati and Salam who created
some wizardry or machinery called the
Strati Salam construction. could be took
in spaceime and outputed a super field
or took in fields and outputed a super
field or the pankaray group. I would say
it took in an aphine space and gave you
a super an automatically super symmetric
field theory. So the idea is you didn't
have to ad hoc construct an action and
then check laboriously that this crazy
term cancellation happens.
uh up to a surface turn. So when you say
super symmetry is in your theory, I'm
thinking I was thinking space-time super
symmetry because that's the only super
symmetry that exists in the literature.
Totally reject spacetime super symmetry.
Okay.
And by the way, what a key point and it
fits exactly what you're trying to ask
earlier. Should you call something that
isn't space-time super symmetry super
symmetry? Like I've never liked the word
super symmetry. I can't stand it. My
take would be no. Okay. Now you have a
different take. I want to hear it. All
right. Well, one I don't want to slight
anybody
who's like, you know, McDonald Mansuri
doesn't work and I don't want somebody
telling me, "Oh, you're just doing a
modified McDonald Mansuri. That's like
dismissive." No, they tried something
was really good. Had a lot of good ideas
that failed.
Okay. I also don't want to take credit
for all of super symmetry just because
spacetime super symmetry doesn't
work. Right? So I claim that you will
never see super partners of the type
that we hypothesize would spill out of
the LH. It's not going to happen.
The concept is broadly do you want to
adjoin to the Lee
algebra fractional spin
fields which have an algebraic pairing
that land you in the Lee algebra of the
honest
group and I
do but the input is not Minkovski space.
Minkovski space doesn't exist.
It's a fugazi, right? It's a it's an
approximation. The space of connections
is a legitimate aphine space. It is an
aphine space. It's not okay, well, we
won't ding it and put curvature into it.
It just it's it's a flat space.
That was always
meant to be what the Salam Strati
machine did. Now, I believe that there
are super symmetric theories that don't
come from a Salam Strati thing.
But the cool thing about Salam Stratthy,
by the way, if we're mangling this name,
I I apologize to the Stratthy family.
Um, the cool thing about the machine is
is that it guarantees you that your
output will have good characteristics.
And so what I'm claiming is what fixes
the number of generations at an
effective level at
three is the extension of the
inhomogeneous gauge group to include
supercharges.
Now, you call them supercharges because
they're fractional spin fields that
should
have commuting rather than
anti-commuting products that land you in
the SP. Look, if you want, you know, the
informal claim that super symmetry,
you're taking the square root of the um
momentum. Gu says no, no, no, that idea
should be you're taking the square root
of connections.
You're taking the square root of the
gauge potentials. That's a powerful idea
because the gauge potentials are
typically associated with first order
differential operators. So you're taking
a square root not like of a lelassian
the way D
did, but you're taking a square root of
a first order operator.
So the thing is is that I don't want to
get the reason I say super symmetry like
things is that I
notice we we have an epidemic of spell
checkers and if you spell like something
wrong they pretend that they can't read
it and that it's garbage and that
there's nothing. I don't quite know what
they're going to object to. Like, you
know, there are dimensional limits on
space-time super
symmetry
and then there's infinite dimensional
concepts of super symmetry. And so, I
don't know if I use the phrase super
symmetry, there's this you break it, you
are you saying it's a super symmetric
theory? Do you have an action? I don't
want to get into that because that's not
what we need to do to do GU. But it's
the it's the same basic format. And I I
want I'm trying to I think what I'm
really trying to say is I want to
honor the concept of super symmetry
which I think is a brilliant idea which
was terribly
instantiated. And if it turns out that
this thing works, I want to say that
this is its spiritual I want to actually
not take credit for
this. I think you're going to find
out. Okay. So are you doing the opposite
of what was being done earlier with the
cloud being instantiated where it's
you're looking at the instantiation of
space-time super symmetry and saying
super symmetry exists here as such and I
come from here not down here but I'm
trying not to I'm trying to not
obliterate Yang Mills theory is really
nonabilian Maxwell theory
okay we didn't do that to Dac or
Maxwell's Aelian Yang hang mills. Well,
the what I'm trying to say is I don't I
don't have a
clue how Churn Simons became Churn
Simons Whitten without becoming Churn
Simon
Schwarz,
right? Like Schwarz, this guy was there
in the 70s. I was one of the great
intellectual feats of all time. So my
claim is I I think what Yang and Mills
did was great by adding that Away J.
However, isn't it funny that we don't
have a concept like DRA and Maxwell
occurred at the same time in quantum
electronamics? We have a non-abilian
version of that Dac equation. We have a
nonabilion version of Maxwell's
equations. We call the non-abilian
version of Maxwell's equations Yang
Mills theory. We call the other thing
Dac theory as if nothing happened or
changed. So, this is just like we're
wildly inconsistent about who we bury.
This is a really interesting point. We
have this idea that Einstein was in a
race with Hilbert to get to the answer.
This is total
nonsense. The person who really should
get the credit along with Einstein is
not Einstein's wife and it's not
Hillary. It's Grossman. Marcel Gman was
there in 1913 and the basic idea of GR
of general relativity occurs in that
paper.
Grossman absolutely got shafted by
history and we have particular people
over and over again who get shafted like
Stokelberg gets shafted right um just
along with the Matthew and the Matilda
effects for uh to him who has much much
will be given so that we have
attribution magnet there's also
something I've been trying to name for
years called the Sudarian effect George
Sudarian was one of the absolute giants
of physics and we don't honor him. I was
visiting with Kathy Fes at uh University
of Texas at Austin. She's in his office.
I was just like, "Oh my god, I'm in
Sudarian's office." Well, how many
people recognize how much Sudarian did
because he never gets the credit and
never gets a Nobel Prize for all of his
great work. So, I have no idea why it is
that Robert Herman wasn't credited with
figuring out Yang Mills theory was
bundle theory. we have this weird thing
where we just don't honor things right.
So I'm trying as best I can to be very
very careful about the spiritual nature
of the
work. The idea to
take once you have the idea that
you're taking an analogy with the poner
group that Lorent becomes the gauge and
the momentum becomes the gauge
potentials. Do you really want to claim,
hey, I had this brilliant idea. I'm
going to see whether it can be extended
to
spinners. That's not anybody would try
that. And so the thing is is that I want
to call it super symmetry like because
if it turns out to be
right, I want to honor all the people
who worked on super
symmetry in the wrong instantiation. And
and by the way, I I also just think
everyone should read that
1963 Dac article in Scientific American
because he makes the point that this
idea of saying we will force you to pin
yourself to one instantiation and that
is your
theory. That's like terrible science.
I'm starting to clear up some of the
confusions I have. Go for it. By
understanding you more psychologically.
Oh, no. But you see I I haven't I
haven't had this conversation in my
life. I see that honoring is extremely
important to you. Extremely and spirit
is also important to you. That's right.
But I'll also define spirit in a
different manner. So spirit can be
spiritual but spirit in the way that I'm
going to speak about it doesn't
necessarily have to be tied to
that. So you would say it's it's a
battle between Gman and Aerisman. the
battle for fundamental physics.
Something like that. No, I would sorry.
Reman and Arisman. Are you sure? Well,
there's Gman versus Hilbert as the
people who might have been given credit
for general relativity. That's one
thing. So, you see it as Gmanian
geometry verse Arismanian geometry or
Remon versus Arisman? It's Remon versus
Arismanian. So, why not Remon versus
Whitney or versus Steinrod? So, tell me
about that. Well, if both of those were
there in the early days of differential
geometry, why is Arisman getting credit
when Whitney introduced the concept of a
fiber bundle before Arisman added G
actions on it? So, I think of these
these Well, I think of these. Yeah. So,
Steamrod, Cartan, these are important
names and I'm not fetishistically saying
we can do a perfect job with
attribution. Whatever we do, in fact, he
was given all the time and information
in the world. There's no way of naming
things that's going to work exactly. So,
I'm not claiming we should we should go
for perfection, but these gross
injustices are are offensive to me. So,
I'm I'm really I'm trying to say I'd
like to do as little violence as is
practical and humanly possible. I can't
stand George W not being given credit
for substructure of the nucleons. If I
start giving a talk and I say all right
we have three veence aces inside every
proton and
neutron everyone will say you mean
quirks and then they will say oh I
remember that he called them aces and
that there was a conflict right so for
example another one of these I could
give a talk about QCD and the theta
angle and I could say all right we've
never actually seen higlets in the wild
but the search for Higlets should
actually be very
important. Everyone would say,
"Higlet, don't you mean Axion?" Then
they'd realize, "Oh yeah, yeah, there
was a conflict between Weineberg and
Wilche." And I believe that Weineberg,
who has many things credited to him,
graciously agreed to use Frank's
terminology because we will always
remember the names of Wilch and
Weinberg. I'm less worried about that.
I'm much more worried about George Zwag
whose one contribution to physics that's
lasting ended up with Murray Galman's
name. Murray Gelman was a great
attribution uh magnet like some of his
work really was done by Sudarian and
some by Stuckleberg and some by Zwig as
well and so there's a question about
conflict but it's very important to me
for personal reasons that the Zwages of
the world are retained and remembered
even if we don't use their
language and the
Sudarians and the tiny you know like we
have a problem that there have been very
few highlevel female s uh in math and
physics in the tiny number of instances
where we we can prove that we've done
injustice to them. And I think Madame
Woo and Emmy Nerder are the two great
injustices of 20th century
physics. Um it's very important to me
that we honor those people. And so yeah,
I have a personal code, a personal
notion of justice. And I in particular
just despise the debunking community.
There's just this background chatter of
laughing at
people and I saw that done to Terren
Howard and I saw some of the laughter
being open and some of the laughter
being
no I think there was a movie or
something called the game where you
brought the biggest idiot to a dinner
party and then everybody sort of laughed
at the gau and mistakes that the person
made at the table. You know, it's this
issue about when you see
someone drink their finger bowl because
they don't know what they're supposed to
do.
And
that I I probably don't have a rational
reaction. I probably have a hatred of
people who do that because whenever I
see somebody mispronounce a
word, I think,
"Wow, you learn that from reading and
self-study.
Right. Let me tie in a Weinberg story
with another woman in physics, Quinn.
Helen Quinn, cuz this goes into your
specification versus the spirit. Please.
And the spirit versus the text is also
there biblically. You're not supposed to
disregard the spirit in favor of the
text. You know, we have a division in
Judaism between the oral Torah and the
written Torah. And there's a word that
isn't used often enough in this way. I
think pettifogging can be used as the
intention of uh arbitrageing the letter
of the law against its spirit. There
used to be something called a court of
chancery that wasn't just about law in
the sense that we mean it now. But was
that fair? Was that is was that just did
the law anticipate how it would be
wielded? And in part, it's very
important to me that we destroy the
debunking community as it exists today
because I think it's having terrible,
terrible effects. I think we should care
much less about peer-reviewed research
because peer review is actually peer
injunction. Peer review is what happens
when people
start talking about your ideas. And I
think that quite honestly there are so
many unsung heroes that weren't strong
enough to defend themselves early in
their career that I hope that the AI
will read a bunch of thesis and realize
oh my god here is the here is the
injustice that we did at a scale we
didn't even know was going on to people
who were trying to contribute to a field
and were so vulnerable that they could
be killed off at the beginning of their
careers. Please I'm going to read this
but while we're on peer review. So what
people think is the injustice of peer
review is that you minimize type one
errors, false positives, right, at the
expense of type two errors. That's what
peer review does and that's what most
people think is the injustice. You have
a different view, but forget about that
different view as you've already talked
about it. What would replace peer review
then to push back on your anti-perreview
rants? I like the old
system. We you ask yourself the
following question. If you go into
Google engrams, you will find that
peerreview does not exist as a phrase
before 1965. Just doesn't. People don't
know that. I show academicians, they're
absolutely shocked. They're convinced
that this goes back to the
1700s. What was the old
system? I'm the only person bearing this
torch. It was powerful editors making
decisions for which they were
accountable.
The double helix was never peer-reviewed
because it could not be peer-reviewed.
And that was one of the statements that
nature made. They said in order to give
this
out to anyone outside that which is
external review which was what was
present in 1953 when peer review didn't
exist we would this once you see the
structure of the double helix you can't
unsee it particularly because it gives
an instantiation geometrically of the
source of charge's rules of equimar
relations between the
nucleotides that
thing had to go into press without an
outside
review. We need powerful editors who do
not all
agree and particularly we can't have the
the only game in town. If if you want to
hear me get completely crazy and and
rant, the only game in town was a
concept that occurred in the quantum
gravity community that said quantum
gravity uh there there is no quest but
quantum
gravity and string theory m theory is
the only game in town to make it sound
like the creed of Islam, right?
anyone found trying to say that only
string theory M
theory can and should be re uh
researched at the most fundamental level
and that quantum gravity is the holy
grail when there's no trace of this
phrase before
197372 is committing a grave ethical sin
at a professional level now something I
never talked about before to the best of
my ability to
remember is something that I only heard
from Richard Fineman. Richard Fineman
somewhere says, "I want to talk to you
about ethics, but only professional
ethics. I don't care what you do in your
personal life, but this whole thing that
we have
collapses if you're
not following certain rules." And I see
a world in which no, I see Sodom and
Gomorrah. That's what I see. Now, in
Sodom and Gomorrah, I'm not capable of
being the person that I wanted to be.
I'm far too
forceful. I'm far too pumped up on my
own ego. People always say to me, Eric,
why are you egotistical? Why are you
loud? Why are you this? Why do you cut
people off? You try dealing with Ed
Whitten and everybody who came along
with him. You're talking about the
single most arrogant, insufferable,
unethical
approach to to fundamental physics. a
group of people who would murder you in
your crib if you so much as suggested
that quantum gravity was not the quest
and that string theory m theory was not
the path and my claim is you failed for
40 years and you've only succeeded at
what the evolutionary theorists have a
name for called interference competition
which is something I learned from my
brother where you make sure that your
competitors can't get access to the salt
licks or the fresh water in the lake so
that they all starve to death and my
claim is is that that particular thing
is a it is a personal quest of mine to
destroy the theory that came in with the
idea that there is only string theory
and everything else is just words and
the words of Edward that is
professionally unethical
behavior. Full
stop. I'll read a quote, please. This is
from a lecture of hers. I I don't recall
what the lecture was on, but I wrote
this quote down. This is Helen Quinn.
Yeah. Helen Lquinn was saying she was
thinking about a student a student of
Julian Julian who was working on
something called source field. Oh yeah.
Which was Julian's way of reformulating
quantum electral dynamics. Steve
referring to Steve Weinberg. Steve
didn't like the source theory. As the
student began to speak, and this was the
student's PhD defense, Steve began
asking him questions about why source
theory was valid, and Julian, the
founder of source theory, was right
there. Naturally, Julian jumped in to
defend his student. This is something
Quinn witnessed, so she's just relaying
this at a lecture. She said, "This meant
that the student didn't have to explain
the theory he was working on, but could
focus on explaining his own work. It
turned into an argument between Steve
and Julian about what constitutes a good
theory. I wish I had a tape recorder
because having two Nobel Prize level
physicists discussing the merits of
different types of theories was
extraordinary. Julian was arguing that
the best theory is one that can absorb
all new information. He was talking
about a type of theory, a class of
theories. Meanwhile, Steve was saying
that you need to have an explicit
realization so that you can test it and
rule it out. Those are two points of
views and I think they're both correct.
I think we need to be seen in the
context of what we mean when we say a
theory. Do we mean a theory or do we
mean a type of
theory? That is a sophisticated
scientist. Yeah, it is absolutely
important that we have the scientific
method to get rid of wrong
instantiations. And it is absolutely
imperative that we have the dac method
to keep good ideas where an
instantiation has been
invalidated. And my private language for
this, which is not as exalted as the
great Helen Quinn, is right freeway,
wrong exit.
The two great ideas of the 1970s were
super symmetry and grand unified theory
and both of them were
correct. Right freeway, we took the
wrong exit on both. We drove the wrong
conclusion because of the simplistic
relationship. And you know, look,
there's an entirely different ethics of
science that involves who's allowed to
take on how much technical
debt. And I I'll say somebody I don't
really get along with very much with is
is Sean Carroll. And Sean Carroll said
something brilliant on your podcast. He
said, "I don't really like the
demarcation
problem to call people pseudocientists,
which is
basically to impugn their
character and their mind and their their
sophistication." He says, "I just like
to say that things are not good
science." And this is great. and and
then
again on your I mean I don't think you
really realize how much is happening
that is happening nowhere else on your
podcast because then Leonard Suskin
talking to you about Peter White when
you said well if you don't know these
theories that you're claiming don't
exist I would be happy to explain them
to you which has never happened I've
never seen that interaction so what's
amazing then is that you have Suskin on
camera saying that Peter White's physics
and math is just
bad. Now, I really appreciate that
statement because it is so laughably
stupid and obviously wrong. Peter Whites
mathematics, that book he wrote on group
representations in quantum theory.
Leonard Suskin wishes on his best day
that he could write a book like that.
Leonard Suskin has written some great
books and he's got he's had some great
ideas, but he's not what he thinks he
is. And to to to the only this is
another thing people don't know about
me. I tend to be very polite to people
up until there there's like one of these
transgressions where they're just mean
or wrong or they do something. I would
never have said what I said about Ed
Whitten if Ed Whitten hadn't hadn't
misbehaved. If Leonard Suskin hadn't
misbehaved by saying that Peter White's
mathematics is bad, I wouldn't say
Leonard Suskin is not the mathematician
that Peter White is. And he's never
written a book as good as Peter White's
book on group symmetry and quantum
theory. You mean rigorously?
It's also just poetry, the pedagogy, and
the fact that he standardized all these
different concepts. You know, it's like
Jared Diamond writing Guns, Germs, and
Steel. Um, you know, there are books,
people always ask me like, "What's your
favorite what are your favorite books?"
And they want to hear Moby Dick or, you
know, Tale of Two Cities. And it's like,
oh, there's Whit's book on group theory
in quantum theory. There's uh
Woodhouse's geometric quantization.
There's Bess's Einstein manifold. Like,
these are great books. Spin geometry by
Lawson and Michaelelsson. I want the
movie rights. These are some of the
greatest books of all time. Peter White
No. Who knew that Peter White was one of
the great physics expositors of our
time? I didn't. I know Peter pretty
well. Yeah, I would love to debate
Leonard Zuskin on that. And by the way,
then you asked like about Eric Wines. He
said, "I have no idea who that
is." It's so funny. I'm sitting next to
Leonard after talking to him at Stanford
at a Natty Cyberg lecture. These guys
pretend that
like you don't talk to them. I have no
idea what this is. It's like a It's a
theater truth.
I want to know what you think of this
classification. Please. There's pop
academics which are those who give who
give lectures to the public and engage
in popular science. Sean Carol's of the
sort and learned Sean Carroll in some of
his instantiation is in that world. But
there's also Sean Carroll who came up
with a version of churn Simon's theory
where you violate Loren variance and you
have a vector field that's nonvanishing
on force base to try to move
threedimensional to fourdimensional
techniques. So Mitioaku is a pop guy but
he wrote this book on string theory
that's quite and also helped invent
string field theory. I know. So string
theory has a problem with not being
non-perturbative. Yep. And string field
theory is nonperturbative.
So there's a serious Mokaku who we
haven't seen for years. So like one of
the one of the memes is Miokaku is out
of Get Mioaku in here with me. Like
that's a meme in this little physics
space. Yeah. Mioaku is is a serious
person and a non-serious person. Sean
Carol is a serious person and a
popularizer. Okay, keep Okay, so I'm
saying there's a pop academic and then
there's also the gym rat academic. What
I mean is the person who's just I don't
want to speak to the public. There's no
sense. Why am I going to engage in a
podcast? I'm just here to do my work.
Nemo or Connie Hamemed is of that sort.
Like why do I have to engage and he will
engage? But he's thinking I'm just going
to do research. Although within
academics with to an audience of
academics, he's the great showman of our
time. Keep going.
What has the reception of GU been like
that's different between the pop
academics versus the gym rat or closed
door
academics?
GU? Well, there's two things. There's GU
and there's
me. Some doors are closed to me because
people know that I worked for Peter
Teal. I'm just going to be honest about
it. Their idea is you've worked for the
devil. Never mind that I don't see Peter
as the devil. Their point is, you work
for pure evil, therefore you are a
far-right
uh you're you're practically a KKK
member. Good day. That's one of the
reactions to me and to Ju. Um there
isn't if you look at what let's say
Stefan Alexander or Ed Frankle or Marcus
Dottoy or
um Brian Keading or my hosts at the
Hebrew University of Jerusalem
they're if I showed you on my phone me
with all sorts of top tier academics
you'd say wow you're clearly having all
these conversations with top people. And
it's
true. Nobody gives it the time it takes.
Like I I assume that you found that even
though it's weirdly a simple idea, it
takes forever to get some of this stuff
across. Yeah. So the typical thing is if
I'm invited into an academic department,
um they won't aortion enough time. They
won't say, "Why don't you give a series
of four lectures?" So everything's
always an hour. Then you're trying to
figure out how to sort of do all of the
universe in an hour, which is
impossible. At least I don't know how to
do
it. I would say that there are tons of
top academics who are interested and who
will
talk. Nobody has digested enough of it.
It
requires at some
point some top person who in good
standing with the community will say I
think there's way more here and that
will change everything. I think what you
said is key some top person cuz it
doesn't matter if it's a person there's
a hierarchy. Y so one of the reasons
Peter White is not looked favorably upon
in the string circles generally speaking
is not because his critiques are invalid
but because they think who are you to be
saying that which is very interesting
because first of
all whether you know it or not would you
let me ask you would you agree that
Peter White's blog is the most read blog
in all of physics? I'd say he's top two.
Okay. What's the other one? Sabine.
Okay, so both of these people are known
to know physics. Now, I agree and
disagree with both of them as humans
do, but lots of people read Peter
White's blog for the physics, not for
the critique of string theory. Note,
there's also Scott Arison's blog, though
it's not exactly a physics blog. It's
more about quantum computing. I spoke to
Peter White, Sabina, and Scott on this
podcast several times, and the links are
in the description.
and they won't
admit that they take Peter White very
seriously. So, we have this very weird
thing about people sneaking off to go
read Not Even Wrong and then saying,
"Well, of course, I I frown on the
uh the negative view of physics
or this low level of understanding.
Obviously, Peter White is a very serious
mind and he's a PhD phys. I Who's Who
the hell is trying to get away with
saying this guy's an idiot? I don't I
just It's weird. I'm sorry. I get
emotional because it's like you're
benefiting from the blog and you're
lying about your colleague.
Um Sabina, everybody knows what her be
before you get to what she what she says
should or shouldn't happen. She's
talking about the crisis in physics that
Sean Carroll denies is happening.
Wouldn't it be logical? Like when have
we ever
seen the top people as thought about
from inside the field interacting with
the top critics? Effectively almost
never happens. And every time something
like that happens, I was on a pan I was
put on a panel with Brian Green. And I
told the organizers, "Brian Green will
drop off of this panel." And immediately
Brian Green drops off of the panel. And
then I said, "Okay, I've come all the
way from England so that Brian can phone
in from his
office." And then I say, you know, are
we going to set an empty chair? Are we
going to should we talk about the fact
that Brian Green is going to vanish from
this?
I
think the taste makers occur for a
reason that we don't like to talk about.
In our
time, there arose one taste maker. And I
can tell you this because when I went
and talked about GU, and this is
probably no longer
true, but GU has been around since like
' 84 85. It wasn't as complete, but the
core ideas were were were forming.
Then whenever I tried to talk about it,
people would say, "What does Ed say?
Have you talked to Ed? What's Ed's
thought?" And I said, "Well, what what
do you
say?" Ed was so dominant at that point
that no one wanted to venture an opinion
lest they find themselves on the wrong
side of the world's greatest intellect.
So you weren't
getting a hundred different opinions.
You were getting a hundred different
people trying to guess which way Ed
would go. And that's unhealth. Like I'd
rather say what I thought and find out,
yeah, Ed's right again. I'm
wrong. But that's not what happened.
What happened was is we created a world
that was afraid to disagree with the top
person.
And you know, Nema has been incredibly
kind to me. He invited my son and I into
the Institute of Advanced Study to meet
with him and he just couldn't have been
more constructive and a better advocate
for physics. He's our top in many ways.
Nema is our top
guy. Um, he's stayed true to actual
physics. I think all of his theories
have ended up sort of wrong. I could be
wrong about that, but he's honest and
he's genuine and he's trying and he's a
great showman. He's a great
advocate. Brilliant as the day is long.
Toronto product. Oh, right. Right. Yeah.
He was in uft with my brother. Yeah. He
said he said this thing to me. He said
um it doesn't really matter where you
go. It just matters that you solve lots
of
problems. Solve as many problems as you
can and enjoy life doing it. By the way,
Nema is also perfectly happy to be
heretical. Like Nemo will talk about
negative energy and kasmir states and
negative mass and you know the kasmir
effect all of these wonderful things and
that's not at all you know he there's a
very small number of people who achieve
top status outside of string theory m
theory and you know Lisa Randall might
be
one Nemo would be another so this thing
was absolutely
brutal you burn actually and the double
copy stuff even if it came from string
theory somebody who needs to be promoted
um yeah when you ask like what's the
reception it's
not it's not what I would
expect I just gave a talk at Hebrew
University and I the first thing I say
is here's the formula for the dark
energy like I write down a formula and I
say you know from this new desi
experiment that if it continues there
isn't a cosmological constant it's
variable and it's already a problem that
the cosmological constant would be so
many orders of magnitude lower than it
should be
right so what if it what if there's a
term that can respond imagine that you
set tu stress energy tensor equal to
zero if there's a a capital G mu new
curvature tensor Einstein
curvature then you need the dark energy
term to go up and down with it right you
need it to be able to achieve a ve if
you
will the reason that the we're stuck
with the cosmological constant is that
there's an automatic identity inside of
the Einstein curvature which is that the
full remon curvature has a bianke
identity the contracted version the
Einstein tensor is what has the
divergence free due to the bianc key
identity. Therefore, set tu equal to
zero. Throw the dark energy term to the
other side. It better have an automatic
differential equation because it's equal
to something that has one. Okay. So now
the only equation there only three real
tensors again say something slightly
inaccurate. There only three real
tensors in Romanian geometry. There's
the metric tensor, there's the torsion
tensor and there's the curvature tensor.
Sure. Curvature tensor is used by
Einstein to do gravity.
The torsion tensor is the weak sister
that never makes it to the big dance. So
all you've got is G mu and it's got one
equation which is that it's annihilated
by its own levy connection. Therefore
all you can do is put a lambda in front
of
that. So that the divergence has a
product rule. The derivative of lambda
with g mu left alone plus lambda* the
derivative of g mu. But the derivative
of g mu dies. That means that the only
thing that you can count on is that the
derivative of lambda has to die. That is
what doomed Einstein to having to
include this goddamn term in his
equation which he never liked cuz it was
just there were three terms. There was
the beautiful
term, there was the greatest blunder
term, and then there was the cheap wood
relative to the pure marble, which was
what the stress energy tensor was as he
described it. And torsion
Well, the the torsion isn't in the
Einstein field equations because of the
palletin the fact that if you open
yourself up to torsion then the oiler
lrange doesn't select for it. So the
reason was that so one of the
contentions you know you're in GU when
instead of using the torsion you think
about contortion and then instead of
using contoursion contortion is not
called contortion to me. What is it
called? What do I call it? What do you
call it? I don't know because you're
using a different term. Okay. So if you
take the displacement tensor,
displacement torsion tensor, we haven't
gotten to distortion yet.
Torsion is something involving some
commutation of X and Y vector fields as
you've seen in Romanian geometry. Then
there's a an equivalent augmented
torsion, but that's the thing I'm
introducing. We haven't gotten there
yet. Contoursion isn't something I've
introduced. Okay, got it. Great.
My understanding again I've been out of
academics for a long time so maybe I'm
screwing it up. If I have a bundle and I
have a Levicha
connection I can ask for what's the
difference between any connection and
the levy chvita connection that has to
be an add value one
form that is called the contorion and
you can get the regular torsion from the
contorion or the contorion from the
regular. In other words they have
equivalent I didn't know that had a
name. Yeah, I believe that and this is
stuff that nobody knows, so I'm going to
be a little bit careful. I believe that
the torsion and contorsion have three
separate representational theoretic
components. So the ad in the advalued
one form is lambda 2 and the one form
valued in the two forms breaks into a
sum of three irreducible representations
under a lorren
group. that thing if you take different
proportions of them, one proportion
combination is the torsion, one
proportional combination is the
conttors. They're
equivalent. Neither one of those works.
And so the whole one you know you know
you're in geometric unity when you use
the gauge rotated levy chvita connection
in what would be the contorion instead
of the torsion tensor because that thing
has incredible
uh invariance properties and
equivariance properties under the gauge
group acting on the inhomogeneous gauge
group. Do I know that as the tilted
gauge group? The tilted gauge group.
This is I love this tilted gauge group.
The terra for our Hindi speaking friends
uh gauge group is mapped in by this what
I now call toao
subplus and you can multiply on the
right or you can multiply on the left by
the inverse so that you get a right
action on both sides. You can take the
double coset construction the double
coset of the inhomogeneous gauge group
by the proper tow tilted
homorphisms acting on both
sides results in something equivalent to
a mod g which is what they Mcdal Mansuri
people didn't understand they started
with the wrong space again I want to
honor them look I found this without
knowing about them but they had a piece
of the puzzle
you know, and so this thing
um has a beautiful differential
equation that allows it to be the analog
of divergence free. Let me see if I
understand this. Sure. So the
inhomogeneous gauge group double
co-setted by the tow subscript plus yeah
which I forgot what I called it doesn't
matter. The tilted homorphism is
isomeorphic to a mod g.
Yeah, think about it as this. It's
isomorphic to a mod G or there's some
extra if you want to get technical.
There's two different because they're
multiple homorphisms. But think about
this an inom an inhomogene sorry a
semiirect product topologically is a
cartisian product. It's just the algebra
that's the semiirect. Okay. So what if
you had
G cross or G? Now you're speaking of a
group G.
Yes, thank you. Thank you for keeping me
honest. So you have a gauge group
cartisian product with the space of add
valued one
forms up to an origin add valued one
forms is the same as the space of
connections. So first start with the
inhomogeneous gauge group. Realize that
that's equivalent to gauge group
cartisian product gauge potentials.
Realize that the gauge potentials are
equivalent to the space of connections.
So therefore that's the whole in
homogeneous gauge group is equal to
gauge group cartisian product
connections. Now mod out by G. Just try
to cancel the G. So G mod G goes away.
Now you're left with an A. Now you're
mod out by another G and you get a mod
G.
You know you're you know you're in GU
when uh a mod G is replaced
by the double co-et of the enhomogeneous
gauge group by its own tilted
subgroup. And you'll know you're in GU
when the
um dark energy term which is the
cosmological constant times the metric
is replaced by
Var pi an add valued one form
minus the epsilon gauge transformation
inverted
counterrotating the ex the exterior
derivative coupled to the oliff
connection
applied to the epsilon gauge
transformation the sort of the mora
cartan form that thing is what solves
the cosmological constant problem in G.
Now it's just a ve. Now your only
question is why is it so flat where I
live? Because you have this different
term that doesn't have to be
constant. Look, Eric, I have this
geometric unity iceberg. I can see the
reaction from the comments and people
who email me. It comprises professors,
lay people, researchers, graduate
students in string theory, by the way.
and in not string theory. So, it's not
as if string theorists don't like you or
you don't like string theorist as a
whole. But I don't know what the
reaction to GU or the iceberg, but GU
itself is in the academic world. I know
what the reaction is like from the pop
academics that we talked about earlier.
And most people see pop academics just
by definition because they're popular.
They're the people who put themselves
out in the public. But that's a biased
set. So, one can't generalize and say
academics think X about GU because pop
academics think X about GU. And that's
even provided that pop academics think X
about GU. So, what is it like behind
closed
doors? I would say that for the most
part
uh I take a tremendous number of
highlevel academic meetings with people
at the very top of the field.
Um, so I frequently go to seminars at
Caltech at UCLA. I meet with people
afterwards. I could name names. I choose
not to at the moment, but names
everybody would
know.
The the dominant reaction to GU, by the
way, is silence.
People don't know what to make of
something this crazy, this
bold, and it draws on a skill set. The
number of people who both know the
standard model cold still and still
think in like bundle geometric terms is
about zero. You can uh here's an
exercise for your listeners. Put in the
term vector bundle, you'll get hundreds
of thousands of hits on Google. Put in
the term CKM matrix, which is a
reference to the standard model. And
then require both of them with a plus
sign before the quotation marks and it
drops to three digits. In other words,
the number of people who are in
contention to be working on the standard
model is now vanishingly small.
That is in part the problem is
that nobody who's thinking in vector
bundle terms in physics is really
focused on the standard model. They're
mostly in string theory or maybe some
very high-end GR stuff. Most of the
people thinking about the CKM matrix
have no idea really what vector bundles
are other than something they saw when
they were a graduate student. So in
general the major note is silence.
The only group that is really
vocal is the negative pop sigh people,
the negative pop academic people. Some
of them aren't even in math or physics.
And their thought
is, well, this is obviously garbage
because it has the following
characteristics. You've got somebody
who's um you know close to 60 years old,
is not in an academic seat, making crazy
claims, very
large and this is a classic failure mode
of something going wrong
psychologically. So yeah, that's what
their point is. Well, if you're avoiding
the uh the archive, you're avoiding
submitting to
journals, the only reason for that is
you're hungry for clicks and trying to
make a fortune bamboozling the public.
So, I'm just I want to say that so that
they hear, do you imagine I can't see
you on the
internet? Okay. How many of you
understand what the standard model gauge
group is and
uh understand vector bundles and have
looked at the
various theories so that you have an
idea of what Peter White and string
theory and loop quant like this is a
group that doesn't
exist. So more or less what you're
seeing is you're seeing people trying to
make a heristic distinction about well
it violates these heristics. So if
you're not going to play by the rules,
we're going to treat you like a crank.
And I would say that there's some
reflection of that in math and physics
departments. But there's also a if you
listen to the way I speak when I'm
talking mathematics, which is rarely
people don't usually see me in
this. Well, fine. If if you don't like
what I'm saying, I would imagine you'd
take issue with it on a blackboard. Why
is the third generation the imposttor
generation? Because when you do the
decomposition, it looks like the first
generation's the one that's different
than the latter two. Well, it depends
what you call first, second, and third.
So, the claim is that you're looking at
zero forms tensor spinners, direct sum,
one forms tensor spinners. Yeah. So, I
call zero forms tensor spinners the
first generation. Now, it could turn out
to be not right, but I believe that's
the way it'll go. The second
generation would be what you get by
taking a direct contraction which you
call the trace gamma trace gamma
traceless. Yeah. I don't know if that's
the right language. Is it? No, I don't
know. I don't know either. It was my
understanding.
You were saying to me before that, Eric,
you
mispretion is a projection and I'm
saying yeah, this is what happens. We're
fumbling. I see. So you say that in
analogy the gamma trace part where you
take a one form tensor spinner and you
contract the one form against it using
Clifford multiplication is that I would
call that the second generation. You've
called it the gamma trace. I see. And
then you started with the gamma trace
list as the second generation which I
didn't think I said. So, it's a little
bit of a discrepancy between you and me,
which is great because this is like this
is this is because it's real. Like,
we're trying to develop something and
you're making a point where there's
confusion of language and I want to show
that this is a process as opposed to I I
hand you the perfect finished thing. It
is flawless. Yeah. Sure. Sure. So, the
claim is first generation of spinner
spinners
tensor zero forms.
Second is one forms tensor spinners
contracted across the tensor product.
Just a moment. Would you say that it's
zero forms valued in spinners? It's it's
just spinner fields, but in order to
make it consistent, I see like I would
never have introduced zero form valued
spinners except I know that one form
valued spinners are in the mix. So then
I have to point out that it is true that
ordinary spinner fields can be
technically and pedantically
called zero forms valued in the
spinners. Yeah.
So you have zero form valued spinners.
That's the first generation. Then I
claim the second generation is what you
get when you take one form valued
spinners and you Clifford multiply
across the tensor
product, right? And it's all of those
things that um I guess it would be the
inverse image.
You Clifford multiply what though? The
spinner with the one form. Okay. Yeah.
because you have a
metric that that piece which is
equivalent to the spinners. So So you're
looking
for the
um You got it, Eric. Oh, I'm going to
screw up the kernel, co- kernel, all
this kind of stuff. The the easy thing
to say is the third generation piece,
which is the kernel of that map,
right? Okay. And then the issue is what
is the complement to the kernel? That
would be the second generation. That's
what you're calling the trace. The trace
and the traceless. Yeah. Gamma trace. So
these all look different. So why are you
saying that two of these are equivalent
in some because at the at the
representation theoretic level, two of
them are equivalent and the third is not
an equivalent
representation. But you can have two
groups. Sorry. You can have two group
representations at the level of a
subgroup that are
isomeorphic which at the
level of where they came from in the
total group are not isomeorphic. And I
think sometimes this may be called
somebody should check me leptton
universality
uh where you believe that you you have
to be technically this isn't much
discussed
but we don't know whether these three
generations that we have will continue
to be identical up to
mass as the energy scale
increases. So I'm claiming two of them
will one of them will not. That's like a
prediction. You know you're in GU when
you actually have predictions about what
the remaining matter is to be found and
how it would behave if you went to
higher and higher groups rather than
just broken subgroups.
Okay, let's speak about predictions.
Yeah. Suppose someone wanted to know
something concrete like tell me what
happens when two electrons scatter.
Well, first of all, I'm not the best
person to answer that question. Sabina
made an excellent point. She said,
"Look, there are only three places to
find new physics." Again, if Sabina, if
I don't get this exactly right, forgive
me. One
place is you can have things that are
incredibly massive and require energies
that we've never gotten to. So, we
wouldn't see them because we haven't
gotten to enough energy equivalents to
the mass that we actually see the
objects in the phenomenon. Another thing
that can happen is that things can be so
weakly coupled that we can barely detect
them. Nutrinos are all but dark
matter. They're very weakly coupled.
They're not the ones we see aren't
massive,
but so both of those are things. Then
the the third one is the most
interesting one, which is effects that
you only get to see in special
configurations.
So that would be like Edington waiting
for the moon to pass in front of the sun
and getting in the right place to see
the effect of bending uh the light of
distant stars or the bow arinoff effect
which showed how did we get so far into
the story of electromagnetism and we
didn't even know that we had it wrong.
So it's accessible at low energies it
just requires some novel constructions.
Yeah, it's that one's also funny because
it's really a classical effect, but it's
quantum
detected, right?
So, one thing I didn't know because I'm
not a physicist
um is that there's this thing called a
phenomenologist. And I didn't know what
a phenomenologist was. I just thought
they were people who were closer to the
standard model. I think what a
phenomenologist is is a bridge object
between the pure theory community and
the experiment community where the pure
theorists are not really good at saying
you should build a calerimeter that does
this you you know um and so the
phenomenologists have the trickiest jobs
don't they and I think they're kind of
you have to speak both languages they
have to speak both languages and they
they they're not highly visible like
Brian Keading makes an excellent point
that almost everyone you hear of from
from in the popular version of of
physics is a
theorist. And he says, "What about the
experimentalist?" I'm I, Brian, am an
experimentalist. Well, the theorists are
broken into two categories. And we never
really hear from the phenomenologists.
So, I I agree. And I didn't understand
this like things I got wrong in life. I
didn't understand. I'm not supposed to
be asking
questions.
Um, but I I can tell you effects that I
think you should look for. I don't think
the world is chairo. You know, you're in
GU when your theory is not
chairo. Like one of the critiques of my
theory is is that I have a chyro anomaly
which I find funny because it is not
chairo. Um, but nobody notices this by
the way. Now you can still have an
intermediate chyro structure though.
Sure. But you have an effect you have an
effective theory, right? So the idea is
that or an anomalous triangle diagram or
an inconsistent regularization
procedure.
So GU is not
cyro but it has to produce a cyro world
because effect at an effective level
nature is cyro. So what you have is you
have a field a ve in a dac like operator
again this dac burita swinginger thing
that comes up to
meet the scalar
curvature in the Einstein
equation analog of GU. So GU has a what
it claims is an improved Einstein
equation. Therefore there is like
Romanian curvature in it. It coaxes this
thing out of the vacuum that then plays
the role of a fundamental mass scale. So
what happens when things flatten out?
The scalar curvature drops and the
masses
drop. If the mass drops sufficiently
then a dack type operator decouples into
wild vial type operators.
So the claim is is that what we have is
we have a non-chyro world where there
were two chyro halves that were coupled
because of a ve and then when gravity
gets low
enough what I believe you have is you
have a
decoupling into matter sectors and we
what we call
luminous will be connected to matter
that is currently dark when gravity
becomes strong
F. Oh, this is like a mathematician
trying to sound cool, but like that's
what I think the equation said. Durac
Rorita Schwinger. Yeah, there's a
complex and there's an operator. Let's
take a duram complex where d^2= 0 on a
manifold and let's put a bundle on top
of that manifold with a
connection. Let's imagine the connection
is flat.
So we've tensored this bundle, this
vector bundle with the DAM complex with
a flat connection. D^2 will continue to
be
zero. Now let's say okay, let's relax
the flatness
condition. D ^2 is no longer equal to
zero. d^2 actually becomes
definitionally the curvature.
Okay? Right? Right? Because you need
like you need to go from I forms to I +2
forms and instead of it being a second
order differential operator, it's a
zeroith order differential operator
equivalent to a degree to form valued in
the adjint bundle which is the
curvature. Okay. Yeah.
So sometimes in such situations you're
like oh no that ruined my complex the
curvature which I love ruined the
complex structure of the tensored DM
complex. So what do you do? You say okay
I'm going to roll it up into an
operator.
Instead of having a multi-step complex,
I'm just going to say let let's take
even forms on one side, odd forms on the
other, and I'll map the even forms up
via D, and I'll map them down via D
star. Both coupled to a connection. So
now you get a one-step operator rather
than a multi-step operator. It's not a
complex, but that thing would be the
DRAM complex. the best you can do with a
drram complex with a vector bundle
tensored with it where the connection
was not trivial which was did not have
trivial curvature rather let's say it
that way so this is a rolled up
complex that normally one would find on
a three manifold remember I said
that your NGU when a four manifold
births a 14 manifold which behaves like
a three
manifold there two ways that that
happens. You pointed to one of them,
which is, oh, you mean churn silence.
That was part of the truth. But then
there's a second part of the truth. Only
on a three manifold do I get a cheap
version of
a complex that
has zero forms to one forms, one forms
to two forms, two forms to three
forms. Right? So there are three
non-trivial steps in that complex.
This one goes zero forms to one forms,
one forms to two forms, but the two
forms then get
contracted to d minus1 forms. And then
the d minus one forms get taken to d
forms. So if you put those together, it
looks like a three complex cuz you cut
out almost all of the middle of the
duram
sequence. Right? Now that gadget gets
rolled
up and that's what this direct fit
swinger operator is all about. That's
what the firmian sector looks like. And
by the way, the idea that I haven't
heard any commentary on this idea at
all. It's just weird. It's like here
is a bold clear idea. Take the 14
manifold and that 14
manifold has a
chimeic bundle which is equivalent to
the tangent and the co-angent bundles.
In fact, it's semiconically equivalent
and is endowed with natural metric
information. So you can build spinners
without ever making a metric choice.
Okay, that guy because you can build
spinners, you can think of that as a
um bundle with a U64, 64 structure
group. And what we're going to do is
we're going to take the DAM complex on
that thing, which would normally have
degree 0, degree 1, degree 2, 3, 4, all
the way up to 14 before it died. So it'
have 15 different terms, 14 different
operators.
You're going to cut out almost all of
them in the middle. So you're going to
go 0 to 1 to 13 to 14 and then die. And
so how did you get from two to 13? Oh.
Well, you took two. Yes. You did a
contraction that got you back to one.
Yeah. And then you did a star. Yes. And
so that thing when rolled up has that
zero in the
south east corner of the mat of a 2x2
matrix of operators which is what I
think will be found to be a seessaw
mechanism.
So there's an entire there's a wonderful
book by Michael Aia called the physics
and geometry of knots and you see this
complex in that
book. So that the reason that the 14
manifold behaves like a three manifold
three is magical just a magical
dimension.
There's the Bzonic magic which is churn
Simon's like theories and there's the
firmianic magic which is that you roll
up this very simple
thing and that's what leads to three
generations.
Do you still have the d squ property in
this complex that's only 3 to four long?
This is something I've never said
anywhere. There is a new dsqu I think
it's as cyclic crazy beautiful
complex that if you have two connections
uh I created and have never released to
anyone I haven't even mentioned it
because it's going to it's going to
engender more confusion but suffice it
to say there's something that looks
like oh god what is
it da
A f subb for the second connection
identity db I think that's the four
entry oh sorry there there two negative
signs in the second column so there is a
new d squed which is unbelievable and
one of the coolest things about this is
that on shell where the equations get
satisfied a complex is birthed so If you
think about it and this is you know this
is like this is more with my old math
buddies. My interpretation is that the
Einstein condition is a co logical
condition. Okay. Because what it says is
the curvature has some special property.
But if the curvature is the
obstruction to d^2 equaling 0 then maybe
on shell what that's telling you is that
a new colum columnies theory is born on
shell.
So you're going to get a modulized space
of
connections and then you can look at the
kernel and co- kernel of a colomology
theory on that space and you get this
gorgeous structure. But the thing is is
that look I went into math to avoid
string
theory. And you know, there's just this
very weird story which I had couldn't
sort out in my mind where
I I was a 17-year-old kid at the
University of
Pennsylvania who went to a lecture of Ed
Whitten on string theory in
1980, seemingly three. But Ed Whitten
doesn't give a lecture on string theory
until 1984 after the Green Schwarz
anomaly cancellation. And in this story
where I'm clearly lying, I switch my
major from physics to math because I can
see the effect that he's just had on a
room full of physicists where suddenly
everyone has given up like instant
learned
helplessness. And I never told that
story because it's clearly time
inconsistent. Like he I'm in my
sophomore year. I I'm in college only
for three years.
I'm in my sophomore year when the Green
Schwarz anomaly cancellation happens,
but I've already changed my
major. I'm reading Peter White's book
about this period of
time. And he says Whitten doesn't begin
to get interested in this until the
Green Schwarz anomaly cancellation, but
he actually gives his first lecture on
string theory in 1983 at a conference on
grand unification. I read this, I just
think, you're kidding me. Tell me where
this conference was. This conference was
held at the University of Pennsylvania.
I am the only 17-year-old in that room.
I'm the youngest person to see the
beginning. I'm almost 60 right now as we
speak. 59. I am the youngest person on
earth to see the birth of the Whitten
era of Stranger.
I'm the only person who can report
accurately of what it's like to be an
undergraduate and watch as the
theoretical physicists in this room lose
their
minds because God is in the room saying
things that are so
incredible claims that are so strong
from a position of so much understanding
and wisdom that nobody wants to oppose
it. And I just looked at this and I said
I cannot go into this field. This is
going to take over everything.
Gosh, man. There's many questions that I
have. Pages and pages of questions from
before. I'll come for several days.
We'll do whatever you want to do. But
may I say
something? I think we're making history
right now.
Tell me more.
So all these questions, what was it like
to be in the
room when nobody had heard these
stories? Like there's so much of my life
that lives only in my head because
everyone's still trapped about like, so
wait a minute. You think the world is 14
dimensional? Why do we only see four?
Like that's sort of the level of my
life. I never get to the real part of my
life. My my whole life has been
lived
alone. This is really creepy in a weird
way. I'm having a discussion about
something real. This doesn't happen.
Let's
go. Earlier when you said that we have
the three generations that two of them
have the same representation but one
doesn't. See, physicists tend to mix up
the word representation with
representation's face. Mathematicians
tend to be more careful about that. The
representation is the map that goes from
the group to GLV. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or
the endos if you're on the algebra.
Great. Great is But representation space
is the V. So we have a triple, we have a
group, we have a space and we have a map
from the group into the automorphisms of
the space. So let's call that a
representation. Very good.
So when you said that they have
different representations, do you mean
the representation spaces are the same
for two of them but not the third or or
or what? You're asking the right
question. So let's back all the way up
if we're going to do it from a math
perspective.
A breaking of a
representation is a group, a
subgroup, an initial representation of
the ambient group into the automorphisms
of a some space, usually a vector space.
When you break from an irreducible
representation or a easily presented
tensor product of representations to a
subgroup, very often something that was
irreducible breaks into smaller
irreducible subcomponents.
Yes. Of the smaller subgroup.
The claim that I am making
is the
spinners that we
see the 16dimensional
complex internal quantum numbers
tensored with the two complex
dimensional vial
spinners. As we go to the higher and
higher groups in
GU, what you're going to see
is those dimensions of the spaces won't
change.
You will
see something that looks
like dark matter coming out of its non-
luminous phase and being connected and
coupled to the luminous matter at higher
gravity regimes. That's my
interpretation of higher gravity regime
just means higher curvature. High
curvature. Yeah. Yeah. Really really
what I'm thinking of is high curvature,
but I'm trying to sound like Okay. Okay.
Um but the thing is that
the there are
two even without high
curvature there are two spaces of
firmians that we haven't seen in
GU there's spin three halves
firmians that are really weird because
so they'll appear to be spin three
halves on the form manifold we we know
and
love tensored with a 16 complex
dimensional space that'll look like the
standard model
firmians except it will be
conjugated. So that is in our that's a
prediction. You know you're in GU and GU
makes the prediction that there will be
spin three halves matter coupled to a
16-dimensional vector space that looks
awfully familiar but that the parody is
sort of reversed and
flipped. And then you're going to
have an additional collection of spin
1/2
firmians that are coupled to I forget
it's 144 complex dimensional vector
space that nobody's ever
seen. And the third generation of
firmians that we see that's also spin
halves spin
1/2 will combine with
that when the group rises from this
broken su3 cross su2 cross
u1. So there will be a grand unification
at a petis salon
level. That's where the observed
leptons, the electron and the electron
nutrino become the fourth color of the
quarks for the SU4 that contains the
SU3, which is really spin six, but never
mind. And then you're going to see all
these other particles you've never seen
before. And so the physicists trying to
dismiss the theory says, great, you're
making a prediction. Tell me something.
Why haven't we seen these particles? You
have the mass, right? I don't really
know. But we didn't see the third
generation of particles for a while.
Robbie was the one who said, "Why is
there a second generation of particles?"
I assume that there's a mass prohibition
because a lot of these things are
electrically
charged. So yeah, there is a there's a
hidden I think it's 144 dimensional
complex representation that'll be
tensored with spin 1/2 vial
spinners and it will combine with a
third generation
Eric, it's a pleasure, man. I could keep
talking to you for another couple hours.
Well, probably a few. Yeah, I think
we'll have at least another podcast on
GU that will be more in depth as
mentioned. And also, it wasn't fair to
you, so maybe you're going to want to do
it more structured. Well, that's fine. I
mean, it's like 5 hours of notice. I
haven't had time to prepare for this,
but take care, man. Hey, really, really
great to be here. And by the way, thanks
for really taking an interest in this. I
learned a great deal from watching your
video. Okay, enlighten me. What did your
observation math tell you?
I can tell you what I learned. I I think
I'm less interested in giving you like a
minus, B+, all that kind of stuff. I had
no idea that this was so difficult.
because I just remember all of the
little problems along the way that I was
trying to tackle. So whether this is
right or wrong, whether it's delusional,
we'll find out.
But it has a kind of coherence and at
least to me to my mind it's like yeah
obviously you know because GU begins
with an assumption of four degrees of
freedom only uh together with a tiny bit
of extra information almost nothing I
always think of it as really
simple and I think that I just didn't
have an appreciation for how
overwhelming this is at no point did I
feel like I was doing anything
particularly unusual or clever. It's
just a series of beliefs and intuitions
that I followed and followed and
followed. And I've always had this
question about like,
well, I don't understand. Where is
everybody? And I think in some sense
watching you
struggle with how to present
it, I think I've become kinder to
myself. I think I realize why I've taken
on all these
personality distortions and affectations
of trying to have the same conver try to
imagine having this conversation for 40
years. Eric, I've got 40 minutes.
Explain GU to me. And then like I'll
I'll be 3 minutes in. The person will
say, "Okay, let's design the experiment
that will prove or disprove your
theory." Like
I what? or is there a double cover of
GLV? Yeah, I think Ed Frankle and I
recently spent an hour and a half on
whether there's a double cover of GLV.
There's a metal linear group. It has an
NL lab entry. I didn't know that I
didn't know the name of it. Mhm. I just
worked out that it had to have non-triv
GLV had to have non-trivial pi 1. And
then I think I remember once running
into a reference in Lawson and
Michaelelsson that says that there is
such a group but it's not important
because there are no rep finite
dimensional representations of it which
reduce to the spin
representation. It's like that's the
entire acquaintance I have with this
with this object. So I had no idea until
theories of
everything that I'd
actually like you say this thing at the
end. I'll tell you something else I
didn't I didn't know the word
unexampled.
I I was like should I correct Kirk cuz
he's not using the English language
properly and I realized no I just didn't
know the word. You're you're using it
beautifully. At no point did it occur to
me that this is an an
unexampled phenomenon that what you're
actually asking is for people to use a
huristic. Look, I'm not going to read
all that. Just tell me whether it's
right or wrong, whether he's, you know,
full of it or whether there's anything
to it. And by the way, here's a story
that I I don't think I've told much.
There's a guy named Eugenio Bianke who's
I think still running around in physics.
I went to a conference right after the
Oxford talk in 2013.
and he said you know we've been at this
conference for three days this is our
last day the fourth and everybody in the
world because like Lemon had written
about this was a big you know the
Guardian had written about it and he
said everybody wants to know is there
anything to this or is there nothing to
this so let's go and we'll ditch the
conference so we ditch the conference we
sit
down and I start explaining it to him I
don't know where he went and he finally
he just said stop right there we're like
20 minutes
And I should have listened to this. I
was just like I didn't have the
confidence to hear what he had to say.
He
said, forgive me you Jenny if you're out
there. He said the only thing that's
occurring to people is that there are
either zero new ideas or one new
idea. And nobody imagines that there are
two or more. And the most likely number
is zero.
And then he pointed
at the displaced torsion of the
augmented torsion tensor and he said
just take
that he said that's an entire
field. He
said that one idea is worthy of a field.
Now I didn't know how to process that.
And he said the problem is there's new
idea after new idea after new idea and
nobody no one has budgeted that this is
a
possibility. It was
like remember when you said something
nice and I said thank you and I said
it's a struggle to figure out what to
say. I don't know how to receive the
idea like it's a weird thing that you
work on the theory of everything and you
think it's right. You take those two
statements that shouldn't be a weird
thing for anyone with a PhD in a
technical subject. Like of course that's
what you're working on. If I was in
biology, I'd be trying to cure
cancer. You know, if I if I owned a
rocket company, I'd be trying to go to
Mars.
And to me, it's like we're in
theoretical physics to solve
physics. Like, you know, I know Jim
Watson as a person. That guy's name will
be around for 10,000 years if humans
still exist. It's very weird to have
like hung out with Archimedes for 4
days. Raul Bot. I swam naked with Raul
Bot off Martha's vineyard. He was a sun
worshipper. Raulbot will be remembered
forever.
What we do is normal in a region which
almost if things almost never work but
if they work the prize isn't riches. You
can look at Einstein's house on Zillow
and it's like I don't know a million2
million bucks. It's not
much. If it
works you get to have your name
perpetuated. And that's a weird thing to
think about. We don't think about glory.
We don't think about le lasting
contributions. We can talk about them
for other people. We can't talk about
them for
ourselves. And what he was telling me
was there's too much here. And you know
just visiting with with Lee Smolen he
once said this thing to me which forever
will you know it just disturbed me no
end. He said
Eric you're too
present. I still don't know what he
meant. I think every time somebody had
something to say, I was like, "Yeah,
let's go. Let's pounce. Let's what can
we do?" Ultimately, the hope of GU is
that we get our own source code and we
figure out whether we have to die on
this planet from the fruits of previous
generations of
physicists. I've received several
messages, emails, and comments from
professors saying that they recommend
theories of everything to their
students. And that's fantastic. If
you're a professor or lecturer and
there's a particular standout episode
that your students can benefit from,
please do share. And as always, feel
free to contact me. New update started a
Substack. Writings on there are
currently about language and ill-defined
concepts as well as some other
mathematical details. Much more being
written there. This is content that
isn't anywhere else. It's not on
theories of everything. It's not on
Patreon. Also, full transcripts will be
placed there at some point in the
future. Several people ask me, "Hey
Kurt, you've spoken to so many people in
the fields of theoretical physics,
philosophy, and consciousness. What are
your thoughts?" While I remain impartial
in interviews, this Substack is a way to
peer into my present deliberations on
these
topics. Also, thank you to our partner,
The
Economist. Firstly, thank you for
watching. Thank you for listening. If
you haven't subscribed or clicked that
like button, now is the time to do so.
Why? Because each subscribe, each like
helps YouTube push this content to more
people like yourself. Plus, it helps out
Kurt directly, aka me. I also found out
last year that external links count
plenty toward the algorithm, which means
that whenever you share on Twitter, say
on Facebook, or even on Reddit, etc., It
shows YouTube, hey, people are talking
about this content outside of YouTube,
which in turn greatly aids the
distribution on YouTube. Thirdly, you
should know this podcast is on iTunes.
It's on Spotify. It's on all of the
audio platforms. All you have to do is
type in theories of everything and
you'll find it. Personally, I gain from
re-watching lectures and podcasts. I
also read in the comments that, hey,
toll listeners also gain from replaying.
So, how about instead you relisten on
those platforms like iTunes, Spotify,
Google Podcast, whichever podcast
catcher you use. And finally, if you'd
like to support more conversations like
this, more content like this, then do
consider visiting
patreon.com/kurtjongle and donating with
whatever you like. There's also PayPal.
There's also crypto. There's also just
joining on YouTube. Again, keep in mind
it's support from the sponsors and you
that allow me to work on to full-time.
You also get early access to ad free
episodes, whether it's audio or video.
It's audio in the case of Patreon, video
in the case of YouTube. For instance,
this episode that you're listening to
right now was released a few days
earlier. Every dollar helps far more
than you think. Either way, your
viewership is generosity enough. Thank
you so much.